co  m-~



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

ok oe

In the Matter of the Investigation of ) Case No. 14-26427-1
) TL
ARLYN M. VALENCIA, MLD., ) FILED
Li 10340 5 NAR = $ 201
icense No. ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDIZAL EXAMINERS
By: ————
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt,
MLD., Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., in the above-captioned
matter, by and through Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
Arlyn M. Valencia, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on August 21, 2014, the Board’s IC filed an Order of Summary Suspension
in the above-captioned matter after reviewing evidence and information which demonstrated that
Respondent presented an imminent risk to the health, safety and welfare of the public. On
September 23, 2014, the parties agreed, by stipulation, that Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada shall remain indefinitely suspended; and

WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the Order of Summary Suspension, reviewed
it, understands it, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel concerning the
nature and significance of the Order of Summary Suspension. Respondent is fully advised
concerning her rights and defenses to the Order of Summary Suspension, as well as the possible
sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that she violated one or more
provisions of the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS)
Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code Chapter 630; and




WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that she has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA
and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to,
the right to a formal hearing on the allegations against her, the right to representation by counsel
in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against her, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to her; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between Respondent and the Board’s IC, and not with the
Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session
at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate
approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own
discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon her.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges, if any, alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Order of Summary
Suspension filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges that she is not represented by counsel and wishes to proceed
towards a resolution of this matter, as set forth in this Agreement, without counsel. Respondent

understands and acknowledges that she may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this

N

pw


Agreement. Respondent agrees that if counsel is retained for representation in this matter prior to
entering into this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be informed of such representation prior
to Respondent executing this Agreement. Respondent covenants and agrees that she knowingly,
willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights in connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained
herein, and with the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the
state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to her or that may apply to her in connection with the proceedings on the Summary
Suspension filed herein, the defense of said Summary Suspension, the adjudication of the charges
in said Summary Suspension, and the imposition of sanctions.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the
right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the MPA.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of the summary

suspension currently in place against her without incurring any further costs and expense of providing
a defense to the Order of Summary Suspension: Respondent agrees to allow her license to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada to be revoked, with said revocation stayed and Respondent placed
on probation for a period of sixty (60) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption
and approval of this Agreement, with an obligation to comply with the following terms and
conditions:


If




a. The summary suspension of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada shall be lifted on March 6, 2015 and Respondent’s licensure status
shall be reinstated to the appropriate licensing status;

b. Respondent is currently enrolled in the Nevada Professionals Assistance
Program (NPAP) and shall remain enrolled in said program for the duration of her
probation;

C. Within fourteen (14) days the Board’s adoption and approval of this
Agreement, Respondent shall execute a HIPAA compliant release in favor of the Board to
allow NPAP to directly provide the Board’s Compliance Officer with status reports
regarding Respondent’s program;

d. Respondent shall remain in compliance with all terms of her participation

contracts with NPAP during the term her probation;

e. Respondent shall complete in full any participation contract entered into
f. Respondent shall continue her trauma therapy with Dr. Shiode for the

duration of her probation;

g. Within fourteen (14) days the Board’s adoption and approval of this
Agreement, Respondent shall execute a HIPAA compliant release in favor of the Board to
allow Dr. Shiode to directly provide the Board’s Compliance Officer with status reports
regarding Respondent’s therapy;

h. Respondent shall submit to random hair and urine alcohol and drug screens at
her own expense when requested by an employee of the Board. Any test that is positive for
alcohol, controlled substances or dangerous drugs, other than prescribed by a treating
physician or dentist, shall be considered a violation of this Agreement. Failure to comply
with any such request shall be deemed to be an automatic positive test;

1. Should Respondent be prescribed any controlled substances or dangerous
drugs as defined in NRS 453.3615, by a treating physician or dentist, Respondent shall

provide documentation from the treating physician or dentist to the Board’s Compliance



Officer with seventy-two (72) hours of the prescription or within ninety-six (96) hours should
the prescription be provided on a weekend;

j. For the duration of her probation, Respondent shall attend a 12-step
meeting at least one time per week. On the fifth day of every month, Respondent shall
submit proof of her prior month’s attendance at the 12-step meetings directly to the
Board’s Compliance Officer;

k. Within fourteen (14) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement, Respondent shall select and actively work with a 12-step sponsor to
support her endeavors at sobriety;

L. Respondent shall attend a Caduceus meeting at least one time per month.
On the fifth day of every month, Respondent shall submit proof of her prior month’s
attendance at the Caduceus meetings directly to the Board’s Compliance Officer;

m. Respondent shall inform any and all employers of the terms of this Agreement
during the term of her probation;

n. Respondent shall provide to the Board’s Compliance Officer the best method
to contact her and shall maintain a current address and phone number with the Compliance
Officer;

on Respondent shall not violate any laws or regulations of the state of Nevada
during the period of her probation and Respondent shall remain in compliance with all
federal laws pertaining to the practice of medicine and the prescribing, administering or
dispensing of any dangerous drug or controlled substance during the term of her probation;

p. Respondent shall abstain from any and all mood altering/addictive
substances during the term of his probation, with the exception of mood altering/addictive
substances prescribed by a treating physician or dentist;

q. Respondent shall be solely responsible for any costs and fees associated
with her compliance with all terms and conditions of this Agreement;

T. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse to the Board the sum
of One Thousand Nineteen and 14/100 Dollars ($1,019.14), the current amount of the costs

BR OO N




incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter, along with the costs to

conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the Board within twelve (12)

months of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement;

S. The formal Complaint filed in this matter shall be dismissed without
prejudice and shall only be re-filed if Respondent fails to comply with the terms and
conditions of her probation; and

t. If the IC finds that Respondent has violated any terms or conditions of this
Agreement, it may immediately summarily suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada and shall set a date for a hearing to be held within forty-five (45) days
to determine whether the summary suspension of Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada shall remain in effect.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the Order of Summary Suspension pending herein agatnst Respondent. In
the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for
the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such

contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this



Agreement, the Order of Summary Suspension, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the Order of Summary Suspension or the proceedings herein against
Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or her counsel, if any, may appear
at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and if requested, respond to any
questions that may be addressed to the IC or its counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered
herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges, if any, against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent
covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event
either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the

Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.



12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

13. ‘Failure to Comply With Terms. Failure to comply with the terms recited herein

may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an

order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent

to reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this |S** day of Felaner ty 2015.

Erin V. Albright)Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this }t day of February 2015.

By: Makpa ll Pipl ~_
yn M. Valencia, Es¢-  M. 7,

Respondent

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF CLARK )

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me

This 't day of February 2015.

Mesto) —

Notary Public

ANDREWS. CLARK
NOTARY PUBUC
STATE OF NEVADA
CZF) y Comisen Expres: June 15, 2015
Certificate No: 12-6671



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6™ day of March 2015, with the final total amount of

costs due of $1,019.14.

Michael J (Fischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

