bo



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KKK KS

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 15-26736-1
Complaint Against ) ee FI LED

yom.
TIMOTHY D. BECKETT, M.D., ) SEP 11 20%

) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. ) MEDIGAL EXAMINERS
) By: ta nll
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) and Timothy D. Beckett, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, represented

by Anastasia Noe, Esq., hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the

following:
A. Background
I. Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions of Nevada

Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada since December 23, 2002
(License No. 10395).

2. On April 8, 2015, the IC filed the formal Complaint (Complaint) in this matter
charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the Complaint alleges

one count of obtaining, maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license

' In this matter, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners is composed of
Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., IC Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, IC Member, and Michael J. Fischer,
M.D., IC Member.
? All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


bo





to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or
incomplete statement, a violation of NRS 630.304(1), and one count of engaging in any conduct that is
intended to deceive, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(a).

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, and has reviewed
the Complaint, understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent
counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA) (NRS
Chapter 233B). These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and
the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect consumers by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

ih


tr

Go








B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter, Respondent and the IC hereby
agree to the following terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
out in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges that he is represented by counsel, Anastasia Noe, Esq., and wishes to
resolve this matter with counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into this Agreement after full
consultation with and upon the advice of his counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply to
him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent agrees that the

IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent






hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that
is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit one count of obtaining,
maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by
bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement, a
violation of NRS 630.304(1), as outlined in Count I of the Complaint:. Accordingly, Respondent
hereby agrees that:

a. Respondent shall be fined $1,000 with payment due within 30 days of the
Board’s final order;

b. The Board shall issue a public reprimand;

C. There will be no additional charges stemming from the Board’s October 8,
2014 correspondence with Respondent;

d. Count II of the Complaint is dismissed with prejudice;

e. Respondent shall pay the Board $1,515.82, the fees and costs incurred as
part of the Board's investigative, administrative, and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent,
as authorized by NRS 622.400, within 30 days of the Board's final order in this matter; and

e. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of this case.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall



recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint pending against Respondent. In the course of seeking Board
acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the [C may communicate
directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the [C’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board's acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the allegations in the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of the case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not
seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, Respondent consents to such

jurisdiction, and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,


bo

foo









State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent agrees that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed. Failure
to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or
fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may result in
additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Further,
Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of

this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

ae
Dated this -( ay of Pawgqust Dated this S__ day of Ale 2015,
By: izes EEE
Erin A lbrt sy Lia Noe, Esq.
Attorney for th e an eatigative Committee Attorney for Respondent
UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

CPL SER

Timothy D. Beckett, M.D., Respondent
Dated this 2th day of Suly , 2015.




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11% day of September 2015, with the final total
amount of costs due of $1,515.82.

Michael /fischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

