

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

tale cle fe al

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 15-28202-1
Complaint Against F I LE D
Heather L. Rohrer, PA-C, DEC 07 2015
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MED
Respondent. By: Zeal EXAMINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) and Heather L. Rohrer, PA-C. (Respondent), a licensed certified physician assistant in
Nevada, represented by Matthew Hoffman, Esq., hereby enters into this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) based on the following:!

A. Background

1. Respondent is a certified physician assistant licensed by the Board to practice medicine
in Nevada since August 1, 2003 (License No. PA 789).

2. On July 23, 2015, the IC filed the formal Complaint (Complaint) in this matter
charging Respondent with two violations of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively Medical Practice Act). Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one violation of administering, dispensing or prescribing a controlled substance to
herself or others except as authorized by law, a violation of NRS 630.306(3) and one violation of

failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.




treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1).

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, and has reviewed
the Complaint, understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent
counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA) (NRS
Chapter 233B). These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against her, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and
the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect consumers by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter, Respondent and the IC hereby

agree to the following terms and conditions:




1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is and, at all times relevant to the Complaint, has been a
certified physician assistant licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of
the Board as set out in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that she may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at her own expense. Respondent acknowledges that she is represented by counsel,
Matthew Hoffman, Esq., and wishes to resolve this matter with counsel. Respondent agrees that if
representation by counsel in this matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement
and for the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the
material change. Respondent agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this
Agreement after full consultation with and upon the advice of her counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that may apply to
her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent agrees that the

IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that

is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: one count of prescribing a




controlled substance to herself or others except as authorized by law, a violation of
NRS 630.3063). Accordingly, Respondent hereby agrees that:

a. The Board shall issue a public reprimand;

b. Respondent shall take ten hours of continuing medical education in both of
the following categories: prescribing controlled substances and medical record keeping within 12
months of the Board’s final order. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any
CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the
state of Nevada and shall be approved by Board prior to their completion;

c. Respondent shall pay the Board 2,613.69 the fees and costs incurred as part
of the Board’s investigative, administrative, and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, as
authorized by NRS 622.400, within 30 days of the Board’s final order in this matter;

d. Respondent shall reimburse the Board for any reasonable costs and expenses
further incurred by the Board in monitoring Respondent’s compliance with this Agreement within

30 days of issuance of an invoice;

e. Count II of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice; and
f. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.
6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and
agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies, or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of this case.





7, Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint pending against Respondent. In the course of seeking Board
acceptance, approval, and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate
directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve, and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the allegations in the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of the case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall
not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, Respondent consents to such



jurisdiction, and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent agrees that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved, and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed. Failure
to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses, or
fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may result in
additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Further,
Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of

this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this 26 day of Oct , 2015. Dated this 22d y of Ce : , 2015.

Erin. Albright, Esq. Matthew 5 Esq.

Attorney for thi estigative Committee Attorey for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Z
Heather L. Rohrer, PAC, Respondent

Dated this QQnclday of OCt- , 2015.



Co KN ONO AT PF WD NOOO | Oo ODO COUSCOUS OND lS UO

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 4" day of December 2015, with the final total amount

of costs due of $2,613.69.

Michael J(P{scher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

