
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 15-31252-1
Complaint Against ) FI LE D
ARNOLD W. KLEIN, M.D., ) JUN - 8 2015
Respondent. By: EICAL EXAMINERS ——
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) and Arnold W. Klein, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada hereby enter
into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:*

A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board to practice medicine in Nevada since
June 10, 2006 (license no. 11881).

2. On Junel3, 2014, the IC filed the formal Complaint (Complaint) in this matter
charging Respondent with violations of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively Medical Practice Act). Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one count of obtaining, maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain

or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false,

' Tn this matter, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners is
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., IC Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF,
IC Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., IC Member.

* All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.



misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement in violation of NRS 630.304(1).

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, and has reviewed
the Complaint, understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent
counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA) (NRS
Chapter 233B). These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and
the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect consumers by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter, Respondent and the IC hereby

agree to the following terms and conditions:



1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is and, at all times relevant to the Complaint, has been a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
out in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent_Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this

Agreement at his own expense. Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented by counsel
and wishes to proceed towards a resolution of this matter, as set forth in this Agreement, without
counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this matter materially changes
prior to entering into this Agreement and pending the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for
the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent agrees that he knowingly,
willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply to
him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent agrees that the

IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for

discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that

is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: one count of obtaining,



maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by
bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement in
violation of NRS 630.304(1). Accordingly, Respondent hereby agrees that:

a. Respondent shall be fined One Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($1,000.00)
with payment due within thirty (30) days of the Board’s final order;

b. The Board shall issue a public reprimand;

c. Respondent shall pay the Board Six Hundred Thirty Four Dollars and
48/100 ($634.48), the fees and costs incurred as part of the Board’s investigative, administrative,
and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, as authorized by NRS 622.400, within thirty
(30) days of the Board’s final order in this matter; and

d. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and
agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies, or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of this case.

7, Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint pending against Respondent. In the course of seeking Board
acceptance, approval, and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate
directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or



conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve, and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the allegations in the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of the case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not
seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, Respondent consents to such
jurisdiction, and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent agrees that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term




bo
oe

No
i

BO
CO

“ or condition of this Agreeriac cuwe the Agrearaent has been accepted, approved, and adopted by

the Board, the iC shall be authcr:zed to linriedlately suspend Respondent’s license to practice

medicine in Nevade pending av. ~ Yer to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed. Failure

ts comply with tho terms ef ta.s Agreement, ..chiding failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses, or

s2es owed to the Board, is a failv-e to com~'v with an order of the Board, which may result in
additional disciplinary actian csirg taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Further,

Respondent’s tei ive to rem‘! eave eat to ts 27d for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of

; i Vv
Dated this t [ vA of Many _ , 2035 Dated this S day of v “~ | , 2015.

. /

By:
Attorney for the

Araold W. Klein, M.D.
estigative Commitice Respondent

STATE OF CALIFORNIA _ )
18S.
COUNTY OF )

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me

This day of __, 2015.
SEE ArHeHes
Notary Public

A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate
is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
validity of that document.

State of California
County of Riverside


¥ , 20.15 , by

ENOLEB WW KLEL,AW ;

(Seal)

proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the
person(s) who appeared before me.

pen Notery Pubte - Californta
Riverside County

RICHARD W. MARTIN
Commission # 1993192

Signature fee. tH hac

BL

fhe Se Ae ae Seller ie Gea


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 5“ day of June 2015, with the final total amount of

costs due of $634.48.

Michael Fischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

