

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 15-41732-1

Complaint Against | ; Fl LE D
DOUGLAS STEWART LYNCH, PA-C, _ SEP 44 2015
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

ME L EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board) and Douglas Stewart Lynch, PA-C (Respondent), a licensed physician assistant in
Nevada, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:
A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician assistant licensed by the Board to practice medicine in
Nevada since December 30, 2013 (license no. PA1486).

2. On March 19, 2015, the IC issued an Order of Summary Suspension in this matter
based on its preliminary determination from investigative findings that Respondent was engaging
in acts that put the health, safety, or welfare of the public at risk of imminent harm.

3. On April 28, 2015, the parties stipulated to continuing the scheduled hearing to
allow the parties an opportunity to resolve this matter without a hearing. Respondent
acknowledged that his license would remain in a suspended status for an indefinite period of time
pending resolution of this matter.

4. On May 6, 2015, the IC filed the formal Complaint (Complaint) in this matter

' The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board) was composed of Board
members Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and
Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member at the time the IC voted to file this Complaint. As of July 8, 2015, Ms. Clark is no
longer a member of the IC or Board.




charging Respondent with violations of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively Medical Practice Act). The Complaint
alleged that Respondent was unable to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety because
of the use of drugs. NRS 630.306(1). The Complaint also alleged that Respondent violated the
Nevada standards of practice established by regulation because a Physician Assistant (PA) is
prohibited from rendering professional services to a patient while the PA is in any impaired
mental or physical condition. NAC 630.230(1)(c).

5. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, and has reviewed
the Complaint, understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent
counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

6. Respondent has been cooperative and has fully complied with every request and
order of the Board or IC. Respondent has attended in-patient treatment, out-patient treatment,
several [C-ordered evaluations, and has committed to continuing treatment as recommended by
various evaluations he has received.

7. Respondent is hereby advised of Respondent’s rights regarding this administrative
matter, and of Respondent’s opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint.
Specifically, Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United
States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada
Administrative Procedure Act (APA) (NRS Chapter 233B). These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at
Respondent’s own expense, in the preparation and presentation of Respondent’s defense, the right
to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against Respondent, the right to written
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the
right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to Respondent.

8. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect consumers by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and imposition of

administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board




concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

9. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between Respondent
and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for
consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands
that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement. Respondent further
understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the terms and conditions
enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter, Respondent and the IC hereby
agree to the following terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is and, at all times relevant to the Complaint, has been a
physician assistant licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as
set out in the Medical Practice Act. The IC may initiate disciplinary action against a licensee when it
finds a licensee is unable to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety because of the use of
drugs. NRS 630.306(1).

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at his own expense. Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented by counsel in
Nevada, and wishes to resolve this matter without counsel. Respondent agrees that, if counsel is
retained for representation in this matter prior to entering into this Agreement, counsel for the IC
will be informed of such representation prior to Respondent’s executing this Agreement.
Respondent agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical

Practice Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to Respondent or that may

30f8



apply to Respondent in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the
Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations
set forth in the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the
Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds
for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this matter without incurring any

further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may
issue an order finding that Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act when Respondent tested
positive for illicit drug use, as set forth in the Complaint, violating NRS 630.306(1). Accordingly,
Respondent hereby agrees that:

a. The summary suspension imposed upon Respondent’s license to practice
medicine shall be lifted upon the Board’s acceptance of this Agreement. Respondent’s license
shail be reinstated to Active-Probation status;

b. In order to maintain licensure, Respondent shall remain enrolled in a drug
treatment program for five years. Respondent is currently enrolled in the PRN Program (Program)
directed by Larry Espadero. If the Program feels Respondent is ready to be released before the
five-year period, the Board’s Compliance Officer shall be notified prior to Respondent’s release
from the Program. At the conclusion of the Program, a final report shall be filed with the IC. The
IC may order Respondent to obtain a psychiatric examination and drug evaluation, at
Respondent’s expense, to determine whether further monitoring by the Board is necessary. At
that time, if the IC concludes based on the results of the examination and evaluation that further
monitoring is necessary, the IC shali make a recommendation to the Board at the next scheduled
Board meeting, and this Agreement shall remain in effect until the Board makes a determination.
If no further examination or evaluation is ordered, Respondent’s license shall revert to Active-

Unrestricted status.




In the event a change in the Program is necessary before the five-year
period concludes, Respondent shall work with the Board’s Compliance Officer to identify
acceptable alternative programs to allow Respondent to continue treatment to maintain licensure,
which would then be presented to the IC for approval. The IC may then authorize a Program
change by order;

c. Respondent shall comply with his providers’ recommendations, which shall
be monitored by the Board’s Compliance Officer, to ensure continued success with his treatment.
If a provider’s recommendation differs materially from this Agreement, Respondent shall notify
the Board’s Compliance Officer to determine an acceptable course of action;

d. If not already completed, within 14 days of the Board’s adoption and
approval of this Agreement, Respondent shall execute a release, which complies with the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), in favor of the Board allowing each and
every provider to directly provide the Board with status reports regarding Respondent’s treatment;

e. The Board shall monitor Respondent for five years from the date of the
Board’s order in this matter unless the Board makes a determination that further monitoring is
necessary. Monitoring shall include monthly urine and quarterly hair testing at Respondent’s
expense. The IC may also periodically request Respondent submit to random drug testing at
Respondent’s expense. Any test that is positive for illicit drugs shall be considered a violation of this
Agreement. Failure to comply with any drug testing request shall be deemed an automatic positive
test result.

If the IC orders Respondent to obtain a psychiatric examination and drug
evaluation at the conclusion of the five-year period, the Board’s order requiring monitoring shall
remain in effect until the IC determines whether Respondent needs further monitoring. If the IC
concludes that Respondent needs further monitoring, the IC shall make a recommendation to the
Board at the next scheduled Board meeting;

f. The count in the Complaint against Respondent alleging a violation of NAC
630.230(1)(c) shall be dismissed;

g. The Board shall issue Respondent a public reprimand;



h. Within 12 months of the Board’s order and at Respondent’s expense,
Respondent shall complete eight hours of continuing medical education (CME), in addition to
Respondent’s statutory CME requirements for licensure, on the following topic: substance abuse;

i. Within 90 days of the Board’s order, Respondent shall pay the Board
$1,839.69, the fees and costs incurred as part of the Board’s investigative, administrative, and
disciplinary proceedings against Respondent;

j. Respondent shall reimburse the Board, within 30 days of notice by the Board,
for any reasonable costs and expenses further incurred by the Board in monitoring Respondent’s
compliance with this Agreement; and

k. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and
agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies, or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of this case.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shail

recommend acceptance, approval, and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by
the Board in resolution of the Complaint pending against Respondent. In the course of seeking
Board acceptance, approval, and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.
Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or

conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on Respondent’s part until the




public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and
communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC
agrees that Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and,
if requested, respond to any questions related to this matter.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue an order, making this Agreement an
order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve, and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the allegations in the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of the case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that
Respondent shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, Respondent consents to such
jurisdiction, and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent agrees that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. NRS 622.400.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved, and adopted by




the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed. Failure
to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses, or
fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may result in
additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Further,
Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of
this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts. Respondent’s compliance with

this Agreement or Board order shall be coordinated through the Board’s Compliance Officer.

OH pe
Dated this 4 {h day of h la , 2015. Dated thisoZA day of . 0 ] ¥ 2015.

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

By: Wade MA By:

Alexia M. Emniermann, Esq. Douglas Stewart Lynch, PA-C
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Respondent
STATE OF Nevada )
18S.
county or Clad )

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me

this 92" 22 day of Wo iy , 2015.
Qomathw arary).

Notary Public

nD Pal rnat dual va Sane

Dad
a Fah Limnl nal eel irotlsnd aio

UMATHI | PARAM
A notary Public State of Nevada
4 No. 05-98171-1
7 say Apot. Exp. June 8. 2




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11" day of September 2015, with the final total
amount of costs due of $1,839.69.

Michael J GG cher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

