Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 15-8666-1
Complaint Against FI (ED
Michael S. Mall, M.D., SEP 23 2015
TE BOARD OF
Respondent. NENEBICAL EXAMINERS _——
By! choc

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board)
hereby issues this formal Complaint (Complaint) against Michael S. Mall, M.D. (Respondent), a
licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a reasonable basis to
believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) chapter 630 and
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) chapter 630 (collectively Medical Practice Act). The IC
alleges the following facts:

l. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 6074), and has been
licensed by the Board since July 1, 1990 pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

2. Respondent’s specialty listed with the Board is family practice.

3. At the time of the incidents alleged herein, Patient A was being treated by
Respondent for pain management. His true identity is not disclosed in this Complaint to protect
his identity, but his identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation served on Respondent along
with a copy of this Complaint.

4. Patient A first presented to Respondent on or about May 2002 with complaints of
pain relating to Fibromyalgia.

Mf


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



5. On or about July 19, 2002, Patient A presented to Respondent with complaints of
pain. Respondent increased Patient A’s Oxycontin 40-milligram (mg) prescription from one twice
a day to two twice a day and prescribed five mg of extended release Oxycodone. The medical
records from this visit are illegible.

6. On or about August 16, 2002, Patient A presented to respondent with complaints of
pain. Respondent increased Patient A’s Oxycontin 40-mg prescription from two twice a day to
three twice a day. The medical records from this visit are illegible.

7. On or about November 5, 2004, Respondent prescribed Patient A a Duragesic
patch, which is the transdermal delivery method for Fentanyl, and Actiq, which is the oral delivery
method for Fentanyl. The medical records from this visit are illegible.

8. On July 5, 2005, Respondent increased Patient A’s Actiq medication from 800
micrograms (mcg) to 1,200 mcg. The medical records from this visit are illegible.

9. On or about July 11, 2006, Patient A’s medical records demonstrate that Patient A
was taking four different benzodiazepines-Xanax, Valium, Restoril and Klonopin. On this same
date, Respondent increased Patient A’s Actiq medication from 1,200 mcg to the maximum
allowed dose of 1,600 mcg. The medical records from this visit are illegible. There is no medical
rationale for this daily combination of four benzodiazepines.

10. On or about December 12, 2006, Respondent prescribed Patient A 800 mcg of
Fentora, which is the highest dose available for Fentora. Fentora is another mouth-absorbing
Fentanyl product. Respondent also prescribed Patient A 1,600-mcg of Actiq, which is the highest
dose available for Actiq. He also prescribed Patient A two 75-mcg Duragesics and four different
benzodiazepines. Thus, at this visit, Respondent prescribed Patient A the maximum allowable
dose for two different Fentanyl medications, a third Fentanyl medication, and four different
benzodiazepine medications. The medical records from this visit are illegible.

11. Respondent’s medical records for Patient A lack documentation regarding the
etiology of the patient’s pain, the nature and intensity of the patient’s pain, the effect of pain on
the patient’s ability to function, the presence of recognized medical indications for the use of



Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



controlled substances, and the fact that other treatment modalities or adjuvant therapies were
considered, tried and failed prior to prescribing controlled substances.

12. | Respondent’s medical records for Patient A lack documentation demonstrating that
Respondent checked Patient A’s prescription monitoring profile with the Nevada State Board of
Pharmacy (BOP) before prescribing controlled substances and that Patient A underwent urine
drug screens.

13. Respondent failed to refer Patient A to a pain management specialist.

14. Respondent’s medical records for Patient A lack pain management contracts signed
by the patient, drug profiles, urine toxicology screens, complete physical examinations, complete
motor or neurological exams to assess for nerve root involvement, diagnostic tests, outside
consultations with pain management specialists, and additional examinations/testing to determine

the etiology of the alleged pain.

COUNTI
(Medical Records Violation)

15. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

16. | NRS 630.3062(1) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds for
initiating discipline against a licensee.

17. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to maintain accurate and/or complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of Patient A when he failed to document the nature and intensity of the Patient’s pain, the effect of
pain on the Patient’s ability to function, and the presence of recognized medical indications for the
use of controlled substances.

18. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to maintain accurate and/or complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of Patient A when he failed to document that other treatment modalities or adjuvant therapies had
been considered.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



19. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to maintain accurate and/or complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of Patient A when he failed to document that he checked Patient A’s prescription monitoring
profile with the BOP prior to prescribing Patient A controlled substances.

20. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to maintain accurate and/or complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of Patient A when he failed to maintain legible medical records for Patient A.

21. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT II
(Malpractice)

22. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

23. | NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

24. | NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

25. | As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when he
failed to check Patient A’s prescription monitoring profile with the BOP prior to prescribing
Patient A controlled substances; failed to further evaluate and/or order diagnostic testing to
determine the etiology of Patient A’s pain; failed to treat Patient A’s nonmalignant pain with other
modalities and/or adjuvant therapies prior to prescribing Patient A controlled substances; failed to
prescribe controlled substances in accordance with the law and failed to refer Patient A to a pain
management specialist.

26. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Ml
Hl


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Ss
2S
mae
@ oo 18
Bsg
2:8
a 5%
oe
Sw
“4
ol



COUNT Il
(Unlawful Administration, Dispensing or Prescribing of Controlled Substances)

27. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

28. NRS 630.306(3) provides that administering, dispensing or prescribing any
controlled substance, or any dangerous drug, to others except as authorized by law is grounds for
initiating discipline against a licensee.

29. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
prescribed controlled substances in violation of the law when he failed to determine the etiology
of pain for Patient A; failed to check Patient A’s prescription monitoring profile with the BOP
prior to prescribing Patient A controlled substances; failed to treat the nonmalignant pain of
Patient A with other modalities and/or adjuvant therapies prior to prescribing controlled
substances; failed to perform urine drug testing on Patient A, and failed to follow the policies set
forth in the Model Policy on the Use of Opioid Analgesics in the Treatment of Chronic Pain
(Model Policy), adopted by reference in NAC 630.18, when prescribing controlled substances to
Patient A.

30. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT IV
(Practicing Beyond the Scope of Training)

31. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

32. NRS 630.306(5) provides that practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope
permitted by law or performing services that the licensee knows or has reason to know that he is
not competent to perform or which are beyond the scope of his or her training is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

33. Respondent’s specialty is family medicine, not pain management. As
demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent was prescribing
controlled substances to Patient A without first determining the etiology of Patient A’s pain and

considering other modalities and/or adjuvant therapies prior to prescribing Patient A controlled


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


substances. Further, as demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
was practicing beyond the scope permitted by law and/or was performing services that were
beyond the scope of his training.

34, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT V
(Continual Failure to Exercise the Skill or Diligence or Use the Methods Exercised
by Physicians in the Same Specialty or Field)

35. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

36. | NRS 630.306(7) provides that the continual failure to exercise the skill or diligence
or use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by physicians in good
standing practicing in the same specialty or field is grounds for initiating discipline against a
licensee.

37. Respondent’s specialty is family medicine, not pain management. As
demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed to exercise the
skill or diligence or use the methods exercised by physicians in the same specialty or field when
he prescribed controlled substances to Patient A without first checking Patient A’s prescription
monitoring profile with the BOP prior to prescribing Patient A controlled substances, without
determining the etiology of Patient A’s pain, without considering other modalities and/or adjuvant
therapies prior to prescribing Patient A controlled substances and without referring Patient A to a

pain management specialist.
38. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT VI
(Conduct That Violates the Standards of Practice)

39. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.
IH!
IH


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502


40. NRS 630.306(2)(b) provides that if the licensee engages in any conduct that is a
violation of the standards of practice established by regulation of the Board it is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against the licensee.

41. NAC 630.185 provides that NAC 630.185 to 630.230, inclusive, set forth the
standards of practice established by the Board.

42. NAC 630.230(k) provides that a licensee shall not engage in the practice of writing
prescriptions for controlled substances to treat acute pain or chronic pain in a manner that deviates
from the policies set forth in the Model Policy.

43. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
prescribed controlled substances in violation of the law when he failed to determine the etiology
of pain for Patient A, failed to check Patient A’s prescription monitoring profile with the BOP
prior to prescribing Patient A controlled substances, failed to treat the nonmalignant pain of
Patient A with other modalities and/or adjuvant therapies prior to prescribing controlled
substances, and failed to perform urine drug testing on Patient A.

44. _ By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an
Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine the sanctions it will impose if it finds Respondent
violated the Medical Practice Act;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent, in writing, its findings of
fact, conclusions of law and order, which shall include the sanctions imposed; and
Hi!

Hl


Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

rh

DATED this A yi day of September, 2015.

premises.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Erin Le Co
General Coe
Attomey for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 23 day of September 2015; I served a file stamp copy of COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION & FINGERPRINT INFORMATION via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to

the following:

Michael Mail, M.D.

c/o John Savage, Esq.
7900 West Sahara Ste. 200
Las Vegas, NV 89117

Dated this 23" day of September, 2015.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

