‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521
(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Cer AH ewe

ul
15,



THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
errs
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 19-10860-1
Complaint Against FILED
ROSNER PATRICK LUSS, M.D., FEB 10 2020

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

cr)
Respondent, 5 ICAL EXAMINERS

FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board)
hereby issues this First Amended Complaint (Complaint) against Rosner Patrick Luss, M.D.
(Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC' has a
reasonable basis to believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical
Practice Act). The IC alleges the following facts:

1. Respondent was licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions of the Medical
Practice Act, on July 1, 1998, and 1s currently licensed in active status (License No. 8699).

2. Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is
disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of thts Complaint.

3. On August 3, 2013, Patient A, a 70-year-old female, presented to St. Rose
Dominican Hospital and complained of shortness of breath with a past medical history of coronary
artery disease, asthma/COPD, insulin-dependent diabetes, obesity with sleep apnea, hypertension,
anemia, and a history of DVT on chronic anticoagulation therapy.

4. On August 9, 2013, Respondent took over care of Patient A without a “sign out”
and lacked information about this patient’s medical condition. Respondent was contacted by the

nursing staff, informing him that he was now the attending physician. Respondent ordered IV

" At the time filing of the Complaint was approved, the IC was composed of M Neil Duxbury, Chairman,
‘Aury Nagy, M.D., and Michael C. Edwards, M.D., FACS.

lofS

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

19600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

W
13,

24.

Solu-Medrol and epinephrine for swelling of the neck and shortness of breath, as Patient had
difficulty breathing, along with IV Hydralazine for hypertension. Additionally, Respondent
ordered an upper GI and MRI of the neck to evaluate Patient A’s dysphasia and neck swelling,
and she was transferred to the ICU for close observation. Patient A received a CT scan of her
neck without contrast. As the ordering physician, Respondent did not indicate any findings within
the medical records, from the ordered CT scan. Respondent documented Patient A’s condition of
epiglottitis, but did not document the possibility of an infectious etiology or suggest starting
antibiotics, despite medical information indicating Patient A’s high risk. Respondent documented
Patient A’s white blood count spike on August 9, 2013 was attributed to the steroids ordered that
morning, but Patient A’s blood was drawn at essentially the same time the steroids were given,
and her white blood cell count spiked as her steroids were being tapered.

5. While Respondent was acting as the Attending Physician, Patient A’s condition
worsened. She was intubated and then transferred to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), where Patient
A’s care was directed by the ICU primary care doctor. Respondent continued to monitor Patient
A’s condition and care, but at no time did Respondent ever conduct an examination of Patient A
or her throat, as indicated in the medical records, while acting as the Attending Physician

6. Previous to the preparation of this Complaint, the Board solicited the services of an
independent medical expert (IME) to review Patient A’s medical records and the care provided to
such patient by Respondent. This IME opined that Respondent’s care of Patient A violated the
Medical Practice Act.

Count I
(Malpractice)

7. Allof the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,

to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

2of5S

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

{9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(O75) 658-2559

24.

10. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A.

11. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Count
(Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

12. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

13. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

14. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when he treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

15, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Count Il
(Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation)

16. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

17. Violation of a standard of practice adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary
action pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2)..

18. NAC 630.210 requires a physician to seek consultation with another provider of,
health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation may enhance the
quality of medical services.

19. Respondent failed to timely seek consultation with regard to Patient A’s medical

condition during the morning of August 9, 2013, and Respondent should have consulted with an

30f5

‘9600 Gateway Drive
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521


appropriate care provider to address the doubtfulness of the diagnosis of Patient A’s medical
condition. Such a timely consultation would have confirmed or denied such a diagnosis.

20. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent 1s subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1 That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. ‘That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

a That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,

conclusions of law and order, in writing, to include sanctions to be imposed; and
5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this w day of February, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

wy at

* Robert Kilroy, Esq.
General Counsel
Attomey for the Investigative Committee

40f5

3600 Gateway
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2589

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


a

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE)

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he 1s the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

Dated this o” day of February, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEVADA
STATE BQARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

IA.NeiL Tee

M. Neil Duxbury, Chairman

SofS

a
a

Zz

ai
35:8
Bits
OS P38
e3ee8
Mgege
Eue2
Pe
at




ul

CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on the 9% day of April, 2019, I served a filed copy of the formal FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT, via USPS e-certified, return receipt mail to the following:

Rosner Patrick Luss, M.D.
c/o Anthony D. Lauria, Esq.

Lauria Tokunaga Gates & Linn, LLP
1755 Creekside Oaks Drive, Suite 240
Sacramento, CA 95833

Dated this Uteay of February, 2020.

Shen L. Quigley, Legal EBs

