Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 19-30254-1
Complaint Against FI L E D
HUY NGUYEN, M.D., MAY 27 2020
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. By: CDEP EXAMINERS

FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board)
hereby issues this First Amended Complaint against Huy Nguyen, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed
physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC! has a reasonable basis to believe that
Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statute (NRS) Chapter 630 and the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). The IC alleges
the following facts:

1, Respondent was licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions of the Medical
Practice Act, on July 15, 2005, and is currently licensed in active status (License No. 11525).

2. Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect his privacy, but is
disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this First
Amended Complaint.

3. On August 24, 2012, Patient A, who was vacationing from Ohio, was admitted to
the St. Rose Hospital via the emergency room (ER) for a headache and eye pain. Patient A stated

that he went to the ER due to “left eye infection was burning, seeping and flaming red.”

{if

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this First Amended
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, Chairman,
Aury Nagy, M.D. and Michael C. Edwards, M.D., FACS.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



4, On August 25, 2012, Respondent, who had the responsibility to evaluate Patient
A’s eyes, noted in the medical records that he “completed a full physical examination” and
reviewed the workup from the ER with an understanding that Patient A presented with “left eye
pain” and a history of pseudo tumor cerebri. Respondent’s impressions were pseudo tumor
cerebri, hypertension, diabetes, and obstructive sleep apnea. A neurologist was consulted
subsequently. Respondent had a duty to perform an examination, including the conjunctiva,
eyelids, and cornea with a simple fluorescein stain, that would be necessary to diagnose and treat
an eye infection prior to prescribing steroids for Patient A’s medical condition.

5. On August 26, 2012, at approximately 9:00 a.m., Respondent was concerned about
a possible medical condition of uveitis in Patient A’s left eye. However, there were no acts in
furtherance by Respondent to confirm or deny the possibility of this condition of uveitis. A
referral (consult) to an expert in ophthalmology for a slit-lamp examination and a dilated fundus
examination are required to make a diagnosis of uveitis in patients suspected of uveal tract
inflammation. No consultation for a slit-lamp examination or a dilated fundus examination were
conducted by the Respondent nor did the Respondent conduct either of the aforementioned
examinations. Apparently, Respondent did not have access to such equipment to perform an
actual examination to diagnose uveitis. No consultation was offered or provided to confirm or
deny the “probable uveitis of the left eye.”

6. On August 27, 2012, Patient A was discharged with Respondent’s prescription of
steroid prednisolone eye drops (pred forte) and ciprofloxacin ophthalmic drops, and was instructed
to follow up with an ophthalmologist the next day after discharge.

7. On May 13, 2013, Patient A required a cornea transplant after suffering a severe
cornea ulceration of the left eye, which was not diagnosed by Respondent during his “full physical
examination” on August 25, 2012.

Count I
(Malpractice)
8. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by

reference as though fully set forth herein.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

mam & FO BND

a1

9. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

10. | NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

11. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
he provided medical services to Patient A, because when Respondent, without ruling out a
herpetic or fungal infection during his full physical examination, started Patient A on the steroid
(prednisolone) drops, it was a deviation from the appropriate standard of care, which requires the
ruling out of opportunistic infections, because Respondent did not conduct a slit-lamp examination
prior to having Patient A use the steroid drops.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Count Il
(Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

13. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

14. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

15. | Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when he treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

16. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

HI
HI
HI


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



Count Hl

(Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation)

17. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

18. Violation of a standard of practice adopted by the Board is grounds for imitating
disciplinary action pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2).

19. NAC 630.210 requires a physician to seek consultation with another provider of
health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation may enhance the
quality of medical services.

20. Respondent failed to timely seek consultation with regard to Patient A’s medical
condition of a “probable uveitis of the left eye,” and Respondent should have consulted with an
appropriate care provider to address the doubtfulness of the diagnosis of uveitis, and such a
consultation would have confirmed or denied such a diagnosis.

21. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the First Amended Complaint herein as set forth in NRS
630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the First Amended Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, to include sanctions to be imposed; and
Mf
Mf
HH

4A of 6

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



5.

premises.

DATED this oa day of May, 2020.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

wy. Lb (_

That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

Robert Kilroy, Esq.
General Counsel

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

& Ww N

mo mo -l)


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE)

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury under the laws of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative
Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing First
Amended Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing First Amended
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered during the course of the investigation into

a complaint against Respondent, he believes the allegations and charges in the foregoing First

Amended Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

Dated this QO day of May, 2020. ;
wei Twieuey

M. Neil Duxbury, Chairman


