Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 20-11931-1

Against FI LE D

CHARLES WAYNE FLEISHER, M.D.,
SEP ~ 2 2020

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDJGAL EXAMINERS
BY? se

Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Charles Wayne Fleisher, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges
and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 8351). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on August 6, 1997.

2. Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is
disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On March 28, 2014, Patient A underwent a repeat ultrasound at Respondent’s office.
That ultrasound result revealed a large pelvic mass that was palpable, mobile and very tender.
According to the Respondent, this “new mass” needed to be removed as soon as possible. Respondent
recommended a robot-assisted laparoscopic hysterectomy (RALH) with an excision of the pelvic mass

and a possible oophorectomy. Respondent did not document whether he offered alterative testing (CT

’ The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal Complaint
was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Chairman, Ms. Sandy
Peltyn, and Victor M. Muro, M.D.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



scan) to determine exactly where Patient A’s mass was located, and he did not specifically indicate
whether the mass might be either in the uterus or her ovaries. Patient A signed several different
consent forms that were not documented in the medical record of Patient A.

4. On April 7, 2014, Respondent performed the RALH. He documented that there was
found a mildy enlarged uterus with a simple cyst in the right ovary, a simple paratubal cyst on the left,
with no notable fibroids, and large firm areas of the sigmoid colon that could be consistent with
impacted fecal material or some other colon mass. Based upon the aforementioned, Respondent
sought a consultation from Dr. Laura Dacks, a general surgeon, who was called into the operating
room as a consulting physician, as documented in the OR Nursing Document. The examination
conducted by Dr. Dacks indicated that there didn’t appear to be any acute process going on with the
bowel that required any immediate intervention, and she advised Respondent that once Patient A was
out of the hospital, then Patient A needed to see a gastroenterologist and have a colonoscopy.
However, Respondent’s operative report failed to document this intraoperative consultation from Dr.
Danks. Respondent found uterine hypertrophy, and documented in the operative report that he
decided to proceed with the RALH. Respondent noted in his operative report that the palpable masses
during exam under anesthesia were “probably pedunculated fibrioids based on the bimanual
exam.” The uterine pathogy indicated “chronic endocervicitis with focal squamous mataplasia and


proliferative endometrium and normal myometrium.” Respondent noted the abnormality of Patient
A’s colon, which he concluded was the new mass identified preoperatively. Respondent informed
Patient A and her husband of the intraoperative findings, and advised that she would need to follow up
with a gastroenterologist. Discharge instructions also advised the patient to make follow up office
visits with Respondent and her primary care physician.
Count}
(Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)
(NRS 630.3062(1)(a))
5, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by

reference as though fully set forth herein.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


6. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

7. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when he treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

8. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and
MY
HI
Hl
{i
Hl
HI
iff


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(778) 688-2559


5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this AYR of September, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

» A2¢0___.

Robert Kilroy, Esg., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under
penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he
has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this gn day of September, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

shale)

Dh D. Prabhu, M.D., C


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 2nd day of September, 2020; I served a filed copy of the COMPLAINT and Fingerprint

documents via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to the following:

Charles Wayne Fleisher, M.D.
c/o Jill Chase, Esq.

Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith
6385 So. Rainbow Blvd, Ste 600
Las Vegas, Nevada 89118

Dated this 2nd day of September, 2020.

Crum tGybowen fant

Dawn DeHaven Gordillo
Legal Assistant

