
aes
iis
SZ4a
i

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examincrs

- WY DN


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 20-12252-1

Against F I L E D

VICTOR RONALD BRUCE, M.D., DEC - 4 2020
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDIAL EXAMINERS
By:

a

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board
and attorney for the IC, and Victor Ronald Bruce, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attorney, John Hunt, Esq., of the law firm of Clark Hill PLC, hereby enter
into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active-restricted status by the
Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). His license was originally
issued on September 7, 2018 (License No. 18273).

2. On November QS, 2020, in Case No. 20-12252-1, the IC filed a formal First
Amended Complaint (Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act?
Specifically, the Complaint alleges one (1) violation: one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3),
Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy.


Van agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of these matters and
any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

2 Due to the filing of the Amended Complaint, the initial formal Complaint filed on August 13, 2020, is
withdrawn and deemed to be of no force and effect.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(778) 688-2559

Ve

SB Nd


3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding these administrative matters, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in these administrative matters as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.



B

Bs

8%

O
OBR,

Bees
2eo3

Msggs

a ios
asé

Bg

ot

Ae


ty


- B&B ND


B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with these administrative matters. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently
waives all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the
Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him
or that may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the
Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations
set forth in the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the
Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges


rae
ibe
HAS
Rw

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



that Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have
merit and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts that if these matters were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the count/claim alleged in the Complaint,
but for the purposes of resolving these matters and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the
presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this
Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I of the Complaint, one (1) violation of
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3), Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the Nevada State Board of
Pharmacy.

b. Respondent shall pay a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) within sixty
(60) days of the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

c. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of two thousand eighty-four dollars and
eighteen cents ($2,084.18).

d. Respondent shall undergo either an independent peer review examination or
a Physician Assessment and Clinical Education (PACE) examination to assess his current clinical
competency to practice medicine, with the examination to be completed within ninety (90) days of
the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The examination shall be
conducted pursuant to and in accord with NRS 630.318. The examination shall be conducted by a
provider approved by the Board in advance of the examination. The examiner shall, within sixty
(60) days of the completion of the examination, render an opinion and report to the Board

regarding whether Respondent is competent to practice medicine with an unrestricted license,


Reno, Nevada 89521
(773) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

Vb


noting any concerns or deficiencies and areas of necessary improvement. The examination and
report shall be performed at Respondent’s sole expense.

e. Upon completion of the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph 5(b)-(d)
above, Respondent shall petition the Board for an unrestricted license, and appear at a public
meeting where the Board shall review the record presented and render a determination on that
petition in good faith.

f. Respondent shall remain prohibited from writing prescriptions for
controlled substances until further order of the Board.

g. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

h. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

i. All claims and allegations arising from Board Investigative Case No.
19-18983 shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

resolution of the Complaint at an upcoming Board meeting at the Board’s earliest convenience,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

vb

Co Oo Om


and Respondent hereby waives notice of the same, whether under the United States Constitution,
the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, or otherwise. In the
course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC
may communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to these matters. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and any and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

S. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

M11

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

Ve

(775) 688-2559

> & N

ial


11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of
Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on revocation, which will be duly
noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines,
costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which
may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
/t1

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521

nan F&F WYO ND

Co ont aA


Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection
efforts available.

Dated this 1. day of _ Wovems-r, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:
Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this [ dayof 4% __, 2020.

CLARK HILV PLC

By: Lf A,
John Hunt, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

Dated this / ff, ot Movemlrte-son0,

aa ee

Victor Ronald Bruce, M.D., Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

14,

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 20-12252-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 4th day of
December, 2020, with the final total amount of costs due of two thousand eighty-four dollars and
eighteen cents ($2,084.18)
DATED this Y +h day of December, 2020.

f , ‘ f A
Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Pr nt
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

