OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

u


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


Case No. 20-11931-1

FILED

CHARLES WAYNE FLEISHER, M.D., SEP 1 4 2990
: NEVADA STATE BOARD oF

Respondent. MEDICAL EF
By: a4 AMIN S

ere Renta errand ct

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint

Against

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for the IC, and
Charles Wayne Fleisher, M.D. (Respondent), a physician licensed in Nevada, hereby enter into
this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician currently licensed in active status by the Board pursuant to
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative
Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in Nevada. His license was
originally issued on August 6, 1997 (License No. 8351).

2. On September 2, 2020, in Case No. 20-11931-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges Count I, Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records, NRS 630.3062(1)(a).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any

subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as tn the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his nights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained m
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the nght to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters

with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a

physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential

subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es}) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I (Medical Records).

b. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada shall be placed in
an “Inactive” status. Pursuant to NRS 630.255(4) and NRS 630.255(5), Respondent may
complete an application for a change of status to “Active,” and petition the Board to allow him to
resume the practice of medicine. Provided that Respondent has fulfilled all the terms and
conditions as set for in this subsection (c), committed no new violations of the Medical Practice
Act from the date of this Agreement, and at the time of his application, there are no pending
formal complaints or disciplinary actions against Respondent, in such case, his application to
return to Active status maybe granted in good faith.

C. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $4,099.14, not including any
costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. This Board Order for the payment of costs
and expenses shall be immediately stayed, until which time as Respondent reapplies for his
change in status from Inactive to Active. If Respondent requires a monthly payment plan, then he
may petition the Board for such an accommodation.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



f. Any other claims arising from Board Investigation No. 15-16233 shall be
dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

eh Wwe LY


8. Effect_of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herem, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.



(TTS) Gaa.9889

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Boart af Medical Examiners

13.

Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

: | or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has. becn accepted, approved and adopted by
a the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice |
| medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show. Cause Hearing, which wil! be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
| expenses or fees owed io the Board, is a failure to comply with an onder of the Board, which may

|| result in additional disciplinary action being taken against. Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

; | Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
9 | condition of this Agreement may subject ner to civil collection efforts.

Dated this 98 day of ecV ___» 2020.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

» MeL_

Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Daied this -_sdayof__ 2020.

Jill M. Chase, Esq.
Attomeys for Respondent

Dated this {t+ day of se ra , 2020.

Cf fiz ne

CHARLES WAYNE FLEISHER, M.D., Respondent

Tof?

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Rena, Nevada 89521


13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, inclvding failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Poard for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civ!! collection efforts.

Dated this 4 day of , 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE ROAP 1D) OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Robert Kilroy, sq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this 7 daw of kotember, 2020.

a oA

Lewis Brisbois Law Firm.

By: Lett Lh Lltov——
{Jill M. Chase. Esq.
Attorneys for Respondent

a oe

Dated this day of , 2020.

i
the

CHARLES WAYNE FLEISHER, M.D., Respondent



a bade

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9606 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521

(775) 688-2559






IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Amended Settlement Agreement (20-11931-1) is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11th day of

September, 2020, with the final total amount of costs due of $4,099.14.

Dhak Aeehocky

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

