Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 20-32904-1

Against FI L E D
KIARASH L. MIRKIA, M.D., DEC - 4 2020

Respondent. NEVADA AGUA id OF
y NERS
By: ac = ali
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board
and attorney for the IC, and Kiarash L. Mirkia, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attorney, Keith Weaver, Esq., of the law firm of Lewis Brisbois
Bisgaard & Smith, LLP, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the
following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in inactive status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). His license was originally
issued on December 1, 2007 (License No. 12548).

2. On November 4), 2020, in Case No. 20-32904-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice.

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.

"all agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of these matters and
any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

- B&O ND


4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding these administrative matters, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in these administrative matters as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by _Counsel/Knowing, Willing _and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with these administrative matters. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently
waives all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the
Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him
or that may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the
Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations
set forth in the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the
Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


that Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have
merit and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts that if these matters were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the count/claim alleged in the Complaint,
but for the purposes of resolving these matters and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the
presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this
Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I of the Complaint, one (1) violation of
NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice.

b. Respondent shall be prohibited from performing general surgery in the State of
Nevada until further order of the Board.

c. Respondent’s license shall be subject to a term of probation for a period of
time not to less than twenty-four (24) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption
and approval of this Agreement (Probationary Period). Respondent must complete the following
terms and conditions and demonstrate completion of or compliance them to the good faith
satisfaction of the Board before the expiration of the Probationary Period, or before Respondent
resumes the practice of medicine in Nevada during this Probationary Period, whichever is first; if
Respondent fails to demonstrate compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement
during the Probationary Period, or otherwise violates the terms of this Agreement or the Medical
Practice Act, then the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which hearing will be
duly noticed. Respondent shall complete or comply with the following terms and conditions
during the Probationary Period:


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

ao nN GW

ret

i. Respondent shall pay a fine of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00)
within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

ii. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the
investigation and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being seven thousand
three hundred thirty-seven dollars and twenty-eight cents ($7,337.28), not including any costs that
may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

iii. Respondent shall take twenty (20) hours of continuing medical
education (CME) on Medical Ethics and Boundaries within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be
in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition
of licensure in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement
prior to their completion.

iv. Respondent shall complete a Physician Assessment and
Competency Evaluation (PACE) Program examination of his clinical competency, and a Fitness
For Duty (FFD) examination. The examination shall be conducted pursuant to and in accord with
NRS 630.318. The examination shall be conducted by a provider approved by the Board in
advance of the examination. The examiner shall, within sixty (60) days of the completion of the
examination, render an opinion and report to the Board regarding Respondent’s competency and
fitness for duty, noting any concerns or deficiencies and areas of necessary improvement or
recommended treatment. The examination and report shall be performed at Respondent’s sole
expense.

v. During the Probationary Period, Respondent shall not supervise any
Physician Assistant, or collaborate with any Advanced Practice Registered Nurse, in the State of
Nevada.

vi. Within twenty-four (24) months, or before Respondent resumes the
practice of medicine in Nevada during this Probationary Period, whichever is first, Respondent

shall appear before the Board at a public meeting and demonstrate completion of or compliance


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



with all the terms of this Agreement, at which time, Respondent may submit a Petition for Status
Change to Active in accord with the requirement set forth in NRS 630.255(4)-(5), and petition the
Board to permit Respondent to resume the active practice of medicine, which petition shall be
considered by the Board in good faith.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f. All other claims and allegations arising from the Complaint shall be
dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint at an upcoming Board meeting at the Board’s earliest convenience,
and Respondent hereby waives notice of the same, whether under the United States Constitution,
the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, or otherwise. In the
course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC

may communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to these matters. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and any and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of
Nevada, Washoe County.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


BRRRREBBRBRBEBVSSERBREAESER SS

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

, 13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on revocation, which will be duly
noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines,
costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which
may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as ‘a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection
efforts available.

DATED this © day of /Uoesrber2on0,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this 8) day of _\keronhe- 2020.

LE ISBOIS BISGAARD & SMITH, LLP

By:

€ eaver, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

DATED this 29° _ day of _Noverrbe, 2020,

Kiarash L. Mirkia, M.D., Respondent

Scanned with CamScanner
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 895521


ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 20-32904-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 4th day of
December, 2020, with the final total amount of costs due of seven thousand three hundred thirty-
seven dollars and twenty-eight cents ($7,337.28).
DATED this 44 _ day of December, 2020.

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Présffent
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

