BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint | Case No. 20-32904-1

Against: FILED
KIARASH L. MIRKIA, M.D., NOV 30 2020
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

\L EXAMINERS
By: bn

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(795) 688-2559

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC)! of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for
the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Kiarash L. Mirkia, M.D. (Respondent), violated
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and the Nevada Administrative
Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint
(Complaint), stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1 Respondent was at all times relevant to this Complaint a licensed medical doctor
holding an active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 12548).
Respondent was originally licensed by the Board on December 1, 2007.

2. Patient A was a sixty-four (64) year-old female at the time of the incidents in
question. Her name is not disclosed in this Complaint to protect her identity, but is disclosed in
the Patient Designation contemporaneously served on Respondent with a copy of this Complaint.

ae Patient A had a history of diabetes and hypertension, and was diagnosed with a
pancreatic head tumor abutting the portal vein. She had undergone a laparoscopic
cholecystectomy and later endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography at Mountain View.
Hospital, at which time a stent was placed in her common bile duct. Patient A’s primary care

physician referred her to Respondent for evaluation for possible surgical intervention. Respondent

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, Chairman,
‘Aury Nagy, M.D., and Michael C, Edwards, M.D., FACS


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 658-2559

YN auneon

cy

TT
2a

saw Patient A in his clinic, Maya Medical Spa, located at 2660 S Rainbow Blvd, Las Vegas, NV
89146, where Respondent determined that she was a candidate for diagnostic laparoscopy and a
possible “Whipple” procedure.

4. A Whipple procedure, also known as a pancreaticoduodenectomy, is a highly
complex and advanced surgical operation to remove the head of the pancreas, the first part of the
small intestine (duodenum), the gallbladder and the bile duct.

5. On June 12, 2019, Patient A presented to Respondent at Spring Valley Hospital
Medical Center for surgery. Respondent performed a diagnostic laparoscopy, and a Whipple
procedure, and other surgical interventions to address the hemodynamic instability and
hemorrhagic shock that resulted. During the surgery, Respondent was unable to establish
hemostasis, and did not utilize the assistance of a vascular surgeon.

6. Following the surgery performed by Respondent, Patient A died on June 12, 2019,
of hemorthagie shock.

7. On June 13, 2019, Respondent's privileges and Medical Staff membership were
summarily suspended at Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center.

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

8. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

9. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds for disciplinary action against
a licensee.

10. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice, for the purposes of NRS Chapter 630, as the
failure of a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge
ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

11. Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill and knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances, including but not limited to the conduct described herein, when he
performed a Whipple procedure on Patient A unskillfully, in which said conduct caused Patient

A’s death,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(75) 688-2859

Ya ueeoen

ry

ai

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
WHEREFORE, the IC prays:
1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;
2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an
Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);
3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;
4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, to include sanctions to be imposed; and
5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.
Dated this “30 day of Novgmner , 2020.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STAT) OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By:
Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel

Attomey for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

"1
Pat


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
18s.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED ‘day of November, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

M. Neil Duxbury, Chairman

By:

