(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
oe KK
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 20-8462-1
Against FILED
RICHARD D. WASHINSKY, M.D.,
ASHINSKY, M.D DEC - 4 2020
Respondent, NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDJGAL EXAMINE!
By:
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for
the IC, and Richard D. Washinsky, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted
by his attorney, Kevin C. Murphy, Esq., of the law firm of Murphy Jones APC, hereby enter into
this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative-Code- (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in Nevada. |
His license was originally issued on July 1, 1992 (License No. 6547).

2. On September 14, 2020, in Case No. 20-8462-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges eight (8) violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of Practice
(Counts I, III, V, VII, EX, XI, XIII, XV, ), eight (8) violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to
Maintain Proper Medical Records (Counts II, IV, VI, VII, X, XII, XIV, XVI, ), one (1) violation of

"All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


NRS 630.3065(2)(1), Failure to Comply with Investigative Committee Order to Appear.

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation_by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

£8
i a
ass
eso
ges
32g
O°.
gic
[4

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Counts I, III and V as violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2),
Violation of Standards of Practice, and Counts II, IV and VI as violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a),
Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records, and Count XVII as a violation of NRS 630.3065(2)(a),
Failure to Comply with Investigative Committee Order to Appear.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within six (6) months of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $4516.25, not including any
costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement by making six monthly payments of
$752.71. First payment due on December 18, 2020, and last payment tendered no later than
June 4, 2021.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of $2500.00 within five (5) months of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by making five monthly payments of
$500.00. First payment due on December 18, 2020, and last payment tendered no later than
May 4, 2021.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


f. The remaining counts of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from the
following Board Investigations: 17-16977, 17-17022, 18-18312, 18-18396, 20-19395, 20-19397,
20-19707 shall all be dismissed with prejudice.

g. Respondent shall take twenty (20) hour of live, in-person continuing medical
education (CME) related to best practices in the prescribing of controlled substances before or
within the four (4) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements
that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and
shall be approved by the Board prior to their completion.

h. Respondent shall immediately use E-prescribing protocols as set forth in NRS

639.23535°, which requires a prescription for a controlled substance must be given to a pharmacy

2NRS 639.23535 Electronic transmission of prescriptions for controlled substances to pharmacy required;
exceptions; exemptions; alternative methods if excepted or exempted; construction of section; regulations;
penalties. [Effective January 1, 2021.]

1. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection and except as otherwise provided by regulations adopted
by the Board, a prescription for a controlled substance must be given to a pharmacy by electronic transmission in
accordance with the regulations adopted by the Board. The requirements of this subsection do not apply to a
prescription:

(a) Issued by a veterinarian;

(b) Issued under circumstances prescribed by regulation of the Board where:

(1) Electronic transmission is unavailable due to technologic or electronic failure; or

(2) The drug will be dispensed at a pharmacy located outside of this State;

(c) Issued by a practitioner who will also dispense the drug;

(d) That includes, without limitation, information that is not supported by the program for electronically
transmitting prescriptions prescribed by the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs or its successor
organization or, if that entity ceases to exist, a program designated by the Board;

(e) For which electronic prescribing is prohibited by federal law;

(f) That is not issued for a specific patient;

(g) Issued pursuant to a protocol for research;

(h) Issued by a practitioner who has received a waiver from the Board pursuant to subsection 2; or

(i) Issued under circumstances in which the practitioner determines that:

(1) The patient is unable to obtain the drug in a timely manner if the prescription is given by electronic
transmission; and

(2) Delay will adversely affect the patient’s medical condition.

2. The Board may exempt a practitioner from the requirements of subsection 1 for not more than | year if the
Board determines that the practitioner is unable to give a prescription to a pharmacy by electronic transmission
because of economic hardship, technological limitations that are not within the control of the practitioner or other
exceptional circumstances.

3. A prescription for a controlled substance given to a pharmacy by a means other than electronic transmission
under the conditions prescribed in subsection 1 or 2 must be given:

(a) Directly from the practitioner to a pharmacist;

(b) Indirectly by means of an order or written prescription signed by the practitioner;

(c) By an order transmitted orally by an agent of the practitioner; or

(d) By transmission using a facsimile machine.

4. This section must not be construed to require a pharmacist to:


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


by electronic transmission in accordance with the regulations adopted by the Nevada Board of
Pharmacy, and Respondent shall be subject to unannounced inspections and random monitoring of
his prescribing controlled substances to his patients.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of

(a) Verify that a prescription that is given by means other than electronic transmission meets the requirements of
subsection 1; or

(b) Require a practitioner to indicate in a prescription for a controlled substance given to a pharmacy by means
other than electronic transmission under the conditions prescribed in subsection 1 or 2 the circumstances authorizing
the alternative means of delivery.

5. If the Board determines that a person has violated any provision of this section or any regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, the Board may:

(a) Issue and serve on the person an order to cease and desist the conduct, which must include, without limitation,
the telephone number to contact the Board.

(b) Issue a citation to the person. A citation issued pursuant to this subsection must be in writing, describe with
particularity the nature of the violation and inform the person of the provisions of this subsection. Each activity in
which the person is engaged constitutes a separate offense for which a separate citation may be issued. To appeal a
citation, the person must submit a written request for a hearing to the Board not later than 30 days after the date of
issuance of the citation.

(c) Assess against the person an administrative fine of not more than $5,000.

(d) Impose any combination of the penalties set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

6. Violation of any provision of this section or any regulations adopted pursuant thereto is subject only to the
administrative penalties described in subsection 5 and any professional discipline imposed by the Board.

(Added to NRS by 2019, 2208, effective January 1, 2021)

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such

jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13.‘ Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

So SO)


BOB


Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts,

Dated this day of November, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

ol a

By: if
Robert G. Kilroy. General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this day of November, 2020.
Murphy Jones APC.
By:

Kevin C. Murphy, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

Dated this? day of November, 2020.

Ruched Warhol, tne

Richard D. Washinsky, M.D.
Respondent

er INON.
r, Ueu.

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 20-8462-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 4th day of

December, 2020, with the final total amount of costs due of four thousand five hundred sixteen

Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


dollars and twenty-five cents ($4,516.25).
DATED this “\ ay day of December, 2020.

nhs Ackalioche,

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Pie

+4}

ent

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

