

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
KREKS
In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 06-7541-1
Complaint Against )
) FILED
DEAN MONDELL, M.D., ) NOV 06 2009
) svar
Respondent. ) N NEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of Charles N. Held, M.D, Chairman,
Benjamin Rodriguez, M.D, member, and Jean Stoess, M.A., member, by and through counsel
Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Dean Mondell, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel Arthur Tuverson,
Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on August 7, 2006, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above referenced matter
charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical
Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: one count of malpractice, a violation of
NRS 630.301(4) and one count of failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical
records a violation of NRS 630.3062(1); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands it, and
has consulted with competent counsel Arthur Tuverson, Esq., concerning the nature and significance of
the Complaint and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to the complaint as well
as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act and after due consideration and
consultation with his counsel, concedes that he failed to maintain timely legible, accurate and complete
medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient as set forth in count II of the

Complaint; and



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall advocate approval of this
Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to
approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that if the
Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s
Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the Investigative
Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein
by the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act to wit: one count that he failed to maintain timely legible, accurate and complete
medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient as set forth in count II of the
Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1)and ordering that Respondent shall, at his own expense, attend,
within one year of the adoption of this Agreement by the Board, either (8) hours of continuing medical
education required as a condition of licensure. Furthermore, Respondent shall reimburse the Board the
reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current
amount being $1,574.23 to be paid within ninety (90) days of the acceptance of this Agreement by the
Board;

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the




jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with counsel prior to entering
into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of above identified
counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of
the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to his or that may
apply to his in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said
Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the
matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the
right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall
have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States
Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may
be available to his or that may apply to his in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees

that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent violated one or
more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this Agreement
will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the Investigative Committee for
acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the Investigative Committee shall recommend
approval of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the Board in resolution of the
disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the complaint. In the course of
seeking Board approval of this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate
directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it
were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be

made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his



counsel, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and
communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint
and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the Complaint, and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent. The
Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that Respondent and his counsel may appear at the Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be
addressed to the Investigative Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

6. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves the
terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee will
cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver and Consent
Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed, subject
to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

7. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of
no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement regarding disqualification
of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this
Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the
Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board
shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against
Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the
case, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent
evidence of bad faith.

8. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself,

his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands

whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or



claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by
reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection
with the complaint. The Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full
settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with
the Board.

9. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and

enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving this

Agreement, upon receipt of credible information that Respondent has failed to comply with any term or
condition of this Order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license
until Respondent complies with the term or condition. Failure to comply with the terms recited herein
may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an
Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Furthermore, any failure to pay any fine,
Mf

Mf

Mf

It

HH


Mf



fee, or cost ordered herein will also result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect

the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

Dated this / ate CLAD. —of 2009.

B *

EFT Sa o~
Ly Bese Fy) [ >
Aftorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Dean Monddll, M.D. Réspondent

Dated this 77 day of Arbor’ _, 2009

Dated this 7a day of Lethe , 2009.

By:

Chan Dwr

Arthur Tuverson, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent



1]

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is approved
and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6" day of November 2009, with
the final total amount of costs due of $1,574.23.

( Wet

RENEE WEST, Secretary-Treasurer
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

