
MN YN NNR NRHN BS
eu a Ae OK SF SF CHARA ARBHR ES

COPY

Before the Board of Medical Examiners

of the State of Nevada
In The Matter of Charges and Case No. 07-12771-1
Complaint Against FILED
MARK CAPENER, M.D., MAY 12 2009
(ADA
Respondent. NSMEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., S. Daniel
McBride, M.D., and Donald H. Baepler, Ph.D., D.Sc. (since replaced by Van Heffner), at the time the
associated Complaint was authorized, by and through General Counsel, Edward O. Cousineau and Mark
Capener, M.D., (Respondent), through his counsel of record, Michael Wheiler, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on December 27, 2007, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the above-
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to
the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), to wit: one count of malpractice, a violation of NRS
630.301(4); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands it, denies
the allegations contained in the complaint, and has consulted with competent counsel J. Michael Wheiler,
Esq., concerning the nature and significance of the complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning
his rights and defenses to the complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board
finds and concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States

Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act (NRS


eI DAA FOS fF SF Ce dA AREGEH AS

Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B) including but not
limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of
witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and witnesses on his own behalf, the right to written
findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of
any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent, agrees to waive all
of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, the Medical
Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a
hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he agrees to settle
and resolve this matter of the formal complaint against him by way of, and in accordance with, this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and scheduled, and that the
IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms, covenants
and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be
binding and enforceable upon him and the Board, and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below
shall not be binding and enforceable upon him or the Board except the provisions as to disqualification of
adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 9, and he will be provided with an opportunity to defend
himself against the charges against him at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable

laws;

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve Case No. 07-12771-1 and the charges alleged by the



Board’s IC in the above captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms,
covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. At all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the above-captioned matter,
Respondent was a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada. The IC contends that
Respondent is subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act. Respondent has
denied that the Board continues to have jurisdiction over him nine (9) years after the fact but agrees, for
purposes of this Agreement only, that the Board may exercise jurisdiction over him. By entering into this
Agreement, Respondent does not waive his right to deny Board jurisdiction over him.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel herein, whom

Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent, and fully advised in these circumstances and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and

intelligently after full consultation with counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of above
identified counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to
him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the Complaint filed herein, the defense
of said Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees
that the matter of the Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement
without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this
Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and Respondent
shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the proceeding on the Complaint filed herein.

4. No Admission of Liability. This Agreement is neither an admission of liability by

Respondent nor a concession by the IC that its claims as alleged in the underlying complaint are not

well founded.



5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings and to avoid the delay, uncertainty, inconvenience, and expense of protracted litigation of
the underlying claims by the IC, the parties agree and Respondent does not contest that an order may be
entered herein by the Board finding that the underlying complaint herein, Case No. 07-12771-1, is to be
dismissed with prejudice and that the Board will be paid ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) as partial
reimbursement of costs and fees incurred in the investigation and associated prosecution of the matter.
Further, reimbursement of the costs and fees are to be paid to the Board, by Thomsen Stephens Law
Offices of Idaho Falls, Idaho, within thirty (30) days of acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement by the Board. The settlement shall not be disclosed by the Board to the National
Practitioner’s Data Bank.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Settlement Agreement, the Respondent,

for himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in
their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any
or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of the investigation,
settlement, or administration of Case No. 07-12771-1.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of seeking Board
approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly
with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to
go to hearing. Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his counsel
until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and
communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint,

and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the Complaint or the proceedings



herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that Respondent and his counsel may appear at
the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and if requested, to respond to any questions that

may be addressed to the IC or its counsel.

8. Effect _of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the IC
will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this Settlement,
Waiver and Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be
closed, subject to the provisions of Section 5.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,

accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including
adjudication of the case, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such
member absent evidence of bad faith and/or bias and/or prejudice established by evidence of something
other than said member rejecting or failing to approve this Agreement.

10. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, the parties hereto

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract which may be enforced

in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. | Forum Selection Clause. The parties hereto covenant and agree that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the District Court, the exclusive jurisdiction
shall be in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys Fees and Costs. The parties hereto covenant and agree that in the event an



action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

ad
Dated this <79” day of April, 2009.

YX Co

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Michael Wheiler, Esq.
ttorney for Respondent

I, Mark Capener, M.D., hereby agree to the foregoing Settlement, Consent and Waiver as to the

complaint in Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners Case No. 07-12771-1.

Dated this Z_ day of April, 2009.

Mark Capener, M.D., Respondent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of

May, 2009, with the final total amount of costs due of $10,000.00 payable within 30 days.

ov

CHARLES N. HELD, President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

