ORIGINAL

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KARR
In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 08-12826-1
Complaint Against )
FADI HAMWI, M.D., )
Respondent MEDICAL EXAMINERS. :
ORDER

This matter came on for consideration by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners,
hereinafter ’Board,” on Friday, August 7, 2009, of Respondent’s request that the Board vacate
the February 24, 2009, suspension of his license to practice as a physician in the State of Nevada.
Members of the Board participating were: Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Ms. Renee West,
S. Daniel McBride, M.D., and Mr. Van V. Heffner. Keith D. Marcher, Senior Deputy Attorney
General, acted as legal counsel to the Board. The Respondent, was not present. but was
represented by Hal Taylor, Esq.

The Board had previously entered Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order on
February 24, 2009 (“Order’’) in this case. Pursuant to the Order, the Respondent’s license as a
physician in the State of Nevada was suspended until further order of the Board, and the
Respondent was ordered to pay $4,757.56 in costs and fees and $2,000 in fines within one year
from the date of service of the Order.

All of the costs, fees and fines provided for in the Order have been paid. After due
consideration of new and additional facts contained in Respondent’s request and disclosed by
Respondent’s counsel at hearing, of which the Board was not aware at the time it entered the

Order, including the Respondent’s attempts to correct the problems that resulted in the original

Hl



Order, and positive reports of the Respondent’s current medical practice in Dubai, UAE, the
Board granted Respondent’s request as follows:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. All factual and legal findings contained in the February 24, 2009, Order are stipulated
and affirmed, except that the suspension of Respondent’s license to practice as a physician in the
State of Nevada is hereby redacted from the original Order. The effective date of the original
Order is unchanged.

2. Because the Respondent did not timely renew his license to practice medicine,
Respondent’s license lapsed in 2007, and the Board records will reflect this fact.

3. The Board will file with the national data bank in the normal course of business the
contents of this order.

4. Upon execution and delivery to Respondent’s counsel of this Order, Respondent’s

counsel will prepare for filing a Stipulation for Dismissal of the Petition for Judicial Review

currently pending in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada as Fadi Hamwi

M.D. v. Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, Case No.: CV09-01020.

Dated this Z “taay of September, 2009.

C pode OQ

Charles N. Held, M.D., President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Submitted by:
CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO

Attorney General

By: * ‘ ——— XL ene
KEITH D. MARCHER
Senior Deputy Attorney General
100 North Carson Street
Carson City, Nevada 89701

Attorney for Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

