Attorney General's Office
555 E. Washington, Suite 3900

Las Vegas, NV 89101



B AH

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of the Charges and

Complaint Against: Gage No. 08-12826 -1

rien _2-/24/o¢
< DDw~ho-e_

CLERK OF THE BOARD

FAD! HAMWI, M.D.,

Respondent.


FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision before the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter “Board,” on Friday, February 6, 2009, at the Board’s
Office located at 1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301, Reno, Nevada 89502, on the Complaint filed
herein. Respondent, FADI HAMWI, M.D., hereinafter “Respondent,” was not present at the
meeting.

The Members of the Board participating in the decision were: Javaid Anwar, M.D.;
Sohail Anjum, M.D.; Van V. Heffner; S. Daniel McBride, M.D; Beverly Neyland, M.D.,
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D. and Renee West. All other remaining members of the Board,
being members of the Investigative Committee which issued the complaint in this matter,
were excused from participating and took no part in the proceedings of the Board. Christine
M. Guerci-Nyhus, Chief Deputy Attorney General, acted as legal counsel to the Board.

The Board having received and read the complaint and exhibits offered in this matter
and having reviewed and read all of the above, proceeded to make a decision pursuant to the
provisions of NRS chapter 233B and NRS 630.352. |

The Board after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND

ORDER in this matter as follows:

Attorney General's Office

555 E. Washington, Suite 3900

Las Vegas, NV 89101



FINDINGS OF FACT

I.
Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada at all relevant
times.
I.
A complaint was filed by the Investigative Committee against Respondent in March of

2008 alleging violations of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
HI.

The complaint alleged that Respondent had medical-staff-privileges at several
hospitals in the Las Vegas metropolitan area, including Valley and Mt. View Hospitals. In
January of 2007, Respondent's staff privileges at Valley Hospital were automatically
voluntarily resigned after the hospital's Medical Executive Committee concluded that, despite
various attempts on the part of the hospital to have Respondent remedy the matter,
Respondent failed to complete medical records for approximately one-hundred and seventy
patients he had treated previously at Valley Hospital. As of the date of the Complaint, the
referenced medical records had not been completed by Respondent In July of 2007, the
Board was contacted by Mt. View Hospital and was apprised that Respondent had failed to
complete medical records for approximately ninety patients he had previously treated at Mt.
View Hospital. As of the date of the Complaint, the referenced medical records had not been
completed by Respondent. The Board had attempted to contact Respondent by way of
telephone and mailings to Respondent's permanent mailing address to speak to
Respondent's failure to complete the aforementioned medical records. The Board has been
unsuccessful in this regard, as Respondent contact phone number is no longer in service, and

mailings sent to Respondent have been returned as undeliverable.

IV.
The complaint in Count | alleged that Respondent violated NRS 630.3062(1) when he

failed to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the

diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient.

Attorney General's Office

555 E. Washington, Suite 3900

Las Vegas, NV 89101



V.
The complaint in Count II alleged that the Respondent violated NRS 630.306(9)

when he failed to comply with NRS 630.254 which requires that each licensee shall maintain a
permanent mailing address with the Board to which all communications from the Board to the
licensee must be sent. And, a licensee who changes his permanent mailing address shall notify
the Board of his new permanent address within thirty days after the change.
VI.
The Board finds that Respondent violated 630.3062(1) as set forth in count | of the
Complaint when he failed to complete the medical records.
VII.
The Board further finds that Respondent violated NRS 630.306(9) as set forth in count

Il of the Complaint when he failed to maintain a current permanent mailing address with the

Board.
VIII.

The Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence, that Respondent's conduct is a
violation of NRS Chapter 630 and discipline is warranted.
IX.
If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law,

it may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent.
II.
Respondent was properly served with notice of the hearing before the Hearing Officer,
pursuant to NRS and NAC Chapters 630 and NRS Chapter 233B.
Hl.
The Board concludes that Respondent failed to complete medical records and failed to

maintain a current permanent mailing address with the Board Respondent's convictions.

-3-

Attorney General's Office
555 E. Washington, Suite 3900

Las Vegas, NV 89101



These actions as described above, are violations of NRS 630.3062(1) and NRS 630.306(9)
and thus Respondent is subject to discipline.
IV.
If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Findings of Fact,
it may be so construed.
ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause

appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent has violated NRS Chapter 630 and that discipline is warranted;

2. Respondent’s license as a physician in the State of Nevada is hereby
suspended until further Order of the Board;

3. Respondent shall reimburse the Board all costs and fees incurred in the
investigation and prosecution of this case within one year from the date of
service of this Order. The total costs and fees incurred are Four Thousand
Seven Hundred Fifty Seven Dollars and fifty six cents ($4,757.56); and

4. Respondent shall pay a fine in the amount of Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00)

within one year from the date of service of this Order.

DATED this 24°” day of February 2009.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

CHARLES N. H

Attorney General's Office
555 E. Washington, Suite 3900

Las Vegas, NV 89101



Submitted by:
CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO
Attorney General

oe

Aller M. GBERCI-NYHUS~

Chief Deputy Attorney UES NH

555 East Washington, # 3900

Las Vegas, Nevada 89101

Attorneys for Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

CERTIFICATION

| hereby certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of FADI HAMWI, M.D., Case No. 08-12826 -1.

| further certify that CHARLES N. HELD, M_D., is the President of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such;
and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said CHARLES N. HELD,
M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as

Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

vs #-

Secretary-Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

