
SNBRRBBRBERETDTERER SEE ES

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint

oN

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

CASE NO. 08-20231-1

Against )
) FILED
CLIFFORD CARROL, M_D., ) ;
MAY 1 1 2009
Respondent. ) A STATE BOARD OF
) NE NEDICAL EXAMINERS

ORDER VACATING AND CONTINUING HEARINGS
AND SCHEDULING STATUS CONFERENCE

TO: LYN E. BEGGS, ESQ.

General Counsel Vacated Pre-Hearing Date: 9:00 a.m.

Attorney for the Investigative April 30, 2009

Committee of the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301

Reno, Nevada 89502 Vacated Hearing Date: 9:00 a.m.
June 22, 2009

SHERMAN B. MAYOR, ESQ.

Mayor Law Firm

Attorney for Respondent Status Conference Date: 10:00 a.m.
2820 West Charleston Boulevard, Suite D-35 July 14, 2009
Las Vegas, Nevada 89102

FRANK J. CREMEN, ESQ.
Law Offices of Frank J. Cremen
Attorney for Respondent

715 South 4" Street

Las Vegas, Nevada 89101

CHERYL D. HORNER, ESQ.

Horner Law Firm

Attorney for Respondent

241 West Charleston Boulevard, Suite 155
Las Vegas, Nevada 89102

THIS MATTER came before the undersigned Administrative Hearing Officer

pursuant to the Motion To Continue Formal Hearing Scheduled For June 22, 2009 filed by


SoNBRBRBBERBSSEUERKRGERES

the Respondent in these proceedings. In the body of the Motion the Respondents further
sought the continuation of the Pre-Hearing Conference scheduled for April 30, 2009.

The instant Complaint against the Respondent involves his alleged failure to
exercise the diligence ordinarily exercised under the same citcumstances in regard to the
Respondent’s treatment of the source Hepatitis C patient on September 21, 2007 and
another patient on that same date. The asserted substandard conduct was set-forth in the
Complaint as consisting of “unsafe practices and policies, including, but not limited to,
unsafe injection practices, reuse of equipment intended to be single-use, inappropriate
cleaning of scopes used in procedures, and an extremely high volume of patient procedures.”

The instant Motion was made and based on the argument that (1) Many of the key
witnesses who would be called upon to testify in the civil litigation and these licensing
procedures, including other licensed physicians, CRNA’s, PA’s and nurses have asserted the
Fifth Amendment right not to testify substantively at the present time pending the filing of
the pending criminal charges currently the subject of on-going investigations in Clark
County, Nevada; and (2) The failure and/or refusal of the Southern Nevada Health District
[“SNHD”] to provide its key witnesses, Mr. Brian Labus and Dr. Sands, as well as their
deposition transcripts and investigative records until the completion of the final investigative
report of the SNHD in the process of being finalized in connection with its that agency’s
initial investigation and disclosure of the Hepatitis C outbreak in Clark County, Nevada,
which witnesses and their investigation, interviews, records, notes, testing, and other
documents and evidence, “are at the epicenter of this entire matter.”

General Counsel Beggs echoed the representations of the attorneys for the
Respondent in regard to the position of the SNHD that the appearance and testimony of

Mr. Labus and Dr. Sands and access to the transcripts of said individuals’ deposition or to


NNRBSBSSeSeASB ARH ES


the agency’s soutce investigative reports and the interviews and other documentary evidence
complied during the course of the SNHD investigation of the Hepatitis C outbreak had been
represented as being unavailable for use in these disciplinary proceedings pending the
completion and filing of the final report by that entity.

Based on this parallel current inability of the Investigative Committee to have the
availability of said witnesses and documentary evidence the Investigative Committee did not
oppose the Motion of the Respondent to vacate and continue the Pre-Hearing Conference
ot the Hearing.

In addition to the pending filing of potential State and Federal criminal charges,
the record discussed in connection with the presentation of this Motion included a
discussion in regard to the fact that various private individuals have filed civil tort complaints
against the health care providers licensed by the various licensing boards and commissions
regulating the provision of such medical services within the State of Nevada alleging said
licensees’ tortuous conduct in providing such health care services in connection with the
Hepatitis C outbreak.

The bulk of these private wrong-doing cases are currently being heard in
Department XIX of the Eighth Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in Case No.
A558091 captioned “In the Matter of Endoscopy Center and Associated Businesses and
Coordinated cases”.

Previously rulings in this parallel civil case have impacted the access of the
Defendants in those civil proceedings, and the Respondents in the pending licensing actions,
to the “investigation, interviews, records, notes, testing, and other documents and evidence”
obtained by the SNHD in connection with the charges in said licensing, civil and criminal

actions.



On April 6, 2009 District Judge Allan R. Earl signed a Decision and Order in the
civil actions, a copy of which ruling is attached hereto as Exhibit A and hereby incorporated
by reference.

This ruling was based on a discovery dispute between the SNHD and the
Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada and the Gastroenterology Center of Nevada over
access to “every report, every document, and every shred of investigative evidence under the
control of the SNHD in order to prosecute and defend the various positions they are going
to take in this litigation”...and the “equally understandable reluctance [of the SNHD] to
simply open their investigative files for the parties to rummage through when those files
often contain confidential and sensitive information carrying a statutory
protection”. ..including documents “gathered under the promise of anonymity.”

Rarlier in this dispute currently pending before the Eighth Judicial District Court,
Special Master Floyd Hale stayed a subpoena by the Defendants in the civil litigation. After
various efforts to resolve the discovery dispute, on January 12, 2009 the Special Master
issued his “Special Master Report, Recommendation and District Court Order Regarding
Discovery Issues.”

The April 6, 2009 Decision and Order by the District Court was subsequently
entered based on that Report and the Objections thereto filed by the Defendants and argued
by the parties to that civil litigation to District Judge Earl.

The SNHD argued for a broad and far-ranging protective order limiting access to
its investigators and experts and to such investigative files and the other key personnel
collecting and evaluating such evidence until such time as the final report of that regulatory

agency is finalized and released.


a nol ona SE -omn ce ocx coe pd


The District Court held at pages 7-11, “After careful consideration, it is this
Court’s Decision that the non-patient specific documents which the SNHD wishes to

withhold are indeed protected by the “Deliberative Process Privilege” so long as the final

report has not been finalized and released. This Court disagrees with the Special Mastet’s
opinion that any documents relied on by the SNHD to produce an interim report or public
statements have lost whatever “Deliberative Process Privilege” they may once have held.
The documents in question, to this Court’s satisfaction, ate “pre-decisional and deliberative.”

The District Court went on to state, “Any documents which the SNHD deems to
be pre-decisional, deliberative, pointing to an agency decision or report or policy, and
consisting of opinion, recommendation or advice about agency policies ate protected and
need not be produced. Any non-patient specific documents that do not fall into one of
these categories and are not protected under other State and/or Federal Statutes must be
produced. As earlier stated, the SNHD is encouraged to protect only those documents that
ate absolutely privileged and confidential. The Court also notes that the process of deciding
which documents will and will not fall under the “Deliberative Process Privilege” is
inherently disruptive and until the final report is produced and disseminated, the SNHD is
directed to not take any extraordinary measures to gather, review or catalogue them.”

The District Court further stated, “The Court adopts the recommendation of the
Special Master that any documents produced by the SNHD should initially be produced and
sent to representative counsel for the Plaintiffs for review to allow Plaintiffs to assert any
privilege as to these documents prior to them being released to other patties.”

The SNHD has not indicated a time frame for the finalization and telease of its
final report and has indicated its disagreement with the nature and scope of District Judge

Farl’s Decision and Order by virtue of its actions since the entry of said ruling wherein the


BPNRBNRBRBBERS SEUSS BR SEH ES

agency has designated the previous depositions of Mr. Labus and Dr. Sands as being entirely
under seal (after earlier indicating that only part of those depositions were sealed at the time
such deposition were given) and filing a writ with the Nevada Supreme Court challenging
that Decision and Order primarily based on the mandate that the investigative records would
be disclosed to all other interested individuals and institutions once the SNHD investigation
report was finalized and released.

The Respondent noted, in bringing the instant Motion that the charges lodged
against him were based on the SNHD investigation and preliminary report prepated by Mr.
Labus and approved by Dr. Sands and that the refusal to allow access to said individuals and
report, coupled with the Fifth Amendment privilege rights being asserted by many witnesses
- and entitled to be asserted by the Respondent - prevent the Respondent, the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners and the citizens of the State of Nevada in timely resolving these
licensing issues.

Based on the foregoing and

GOOD CAUSE APPEARING THEREFOR,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Motion To Continue the Pre-Hearing
Conference and Hearing in this matter be, and same hereby is, GRANTED and said Pre-
Hearing Conference and Hearing are hereby VACATED and CONTINUED.

IT IS FURTHER HEREBY ORDERED that a Status Conference be held at
10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, July 14, 2009 to discuss the status of the finalization and release of
the SNHD final report and the access thereby flowing from that action in regard to the
access by the Respondent and the Investigative Committee to Mr. Labus and Dr. Sands and
the source documentary evidence complied in connection with the investigation of the

Hepatitis C outbreak


Ses SRESBESSSEUSETEE SEAS

IT IS FINALLY HEREBY ORDERED that the Respondent and the Investigative
Committee to work in good faith and with due diligence in endeavoring to re-schedule these

proceedings at the earliest possible time consistent with the access allowed by that filing and

access.

7TH
DATED this dayof May 2009.

ye. YE Volos

PATRICK D. DOLAN, ESQ.

Hearing Officer

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Hearing Officer

7980 Meadow Vista Coutt

Reno, Nevada 89511-1027

(775) 328-3323 Telephone (775) 852-7292 Facsimile


BNBREBRENMBS SEN ERE SS ES

CERTIFICATE OF MAILING

I certify that on this day I personally delivered or mailed, postage prepaid, at Reno,

Nevada, a true copy of the foregoing ORDER VACATING AND CONTINUING

HEARINGS AND SCHEDULING STATUS CONFERENCE addtessed to:

LYN E. BEGGS, ESQ.
General Counsel

Attorney for the Investigative
Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301
Reno, Nevada 89502

SHERMAN B. MAYOR, ESQ.

Mayor Law Firm

Attorney for Respondent

2820 West Charleston Boulevard, Suite D-35
Las Vegas, Nevada 89102

FRANK J. CREMEN, ESQ.
Law Offices of Frank J. Cremen
Attorney for Respondent

715 South 4° Street

Las Vegas, Nevada 89101

CHERYL D. HORNER, ESQ.

Horner Law Firm

Attorney for Respondent

241 West Charleston Boulevard, Suite 155
Las Vegas, Nevada 89102

. I thy
DATED this day of May 2009.

hoc JDP

Angelia L. Donohoe, Legal Assistant
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

th.

r Electronically Filed

va rs
f

© ORIGINAL

04/07/2009 07:10:57 AM

Crd bt J

CLERK OF THE COURT

DISTRICT COURT

CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

In the Matter of Case No. A558091
Endoscopy Center and
Associated Businesses



}) Department XIX
and Coordinated cases )




DECISION AND ORDER

SUMMARY OF FACTS

The issue presented to the District Court for Decision
in this matter arises out of a discovery dispute between the
Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada and the Gastroenterology
Center of Nevada, hereafter referred to as “Defendants”, and the
Southern Nevada Health District, hereinafter referred to by the
initials “SNHD”. The SNHD is an integral part of this coordinated
litigation, is actively represented by counsel, but is not an
actual party to the litigation. The Defendants, and the
Plaintiffs for that matter, have an understandable desire to gain
access to every report, every document, and every shred of
investigative evidence under the control of the SNHD in order to
prosecute and defend the various positions they are going to take

in this litigation. The SNHD has an equally understandable

EXHIBIT A




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89755

__t

@ @
reluctance to simply open their investigative files for the
parties to rummage through when those files often contain
confidential and sensitive information carrying a statutory
protection. Many documents appear to have been gathered under the
promise of anonymity.

The parties and the SNHD presented their conflict to the
Special Master, Floyd Hale, for consideration. Previously, the
Defendants, on May 28, 2008, had issued a broad-ranging Subpoena
to the SNHD. The Special Master stayed the Subpoena to allow the
parties concerned to attempt to resolve their discovery issues.
Much correspondence went back and forth between the Defendants
and the SNHD. Several hearings were held where the Defendants and
the SNHD tried to work out their discovery differences. A letter
dated August 5, 2008, on SNHD's letterhead, was generated by
counsel Stephen Minagil and addressed to Defendants’ counsel
Daniel Curriden. This letter outlined the position of the SNHD
with respect to many documents desired by the Defendants. The
Defendants’ position on the documents they desired to have
produced is best set forth in a December 4, 2008, letter generated
by defense counsel V. Andrew Cass, addressed to SNHD counsel Terry
Coffing and Lisa McClane. A telephone hearing was conducted by
the Special Master on January 8, 2009. As a direct result of that
hearing, the Special Master issued his Decision entitled “Special
Master Report, Recommendation and District Court Order Regarding
Discovery Issues.” This Report was issued by the Special Master

on January 12, 2009, and was subsequently signed by the District




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUOGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

ns | (

Court on January 15, 2009, and was then electronically filed on
January 20, 2009. An Objection to the Special Master's Report and
Recommendation was filed by the SNHD and those issues are now
before the District Court in Department XIX for review and
decision.?
ARGUMENT

The briefing on this issue has raised multiple discovery
questions, many of which will have to be answered at a later time.
The scope of the Motion to Compel, and thus the scope of the
Special Master’s Report and Recommendations, is limited. The
Defendants, inter alia, sought to have the SNHD produce the
decuments they had previously promised to produce. Further,
Defendants sought the production of specific documents identified
in the deposition of the SNHD’s Chief Investigator, Mr. Brian
Labus. In addition, Defendants also wanted the SNHD to serve the
Defendants with: (1) a specific list of documents it would
produce; (2) what documents it would not produce; and (3) an
explanation as to the documents it would not produce. In the
middle of these discovery disputes, it should be noted that the
SNHD changed counsel from in-house counsel, Mr. Stephen Minagil,
to outside retained trial counsel from the law firm Marquis &

Aurbach.

1. The chronology of events set forth in this paragraph is not complete, nor is it
intended to be. It is at best a brief and possibly inaccurate summary of the
background on how these discovery issues were presented to the District Court
for decision.




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

At the outset, there seems to be some confusion about
which Subpoena Duces Tecum propounded by the Defendants to SNHD is
still in effect. To be clear, ali Subpoenas Duces Tecum
propounded by the Defendants to SNHD are hereby QUASHED. Any such
Subpoena in the future must be supplied in draft to the Special
Master for review and approval before being served.

It is to be noted that the SNED has already produced, in
two prior productions, a total of (160) documents. The SNHD is
“strongly encouraged” to continue to produce any and all documents
other than those that have a distinct privilege as set forth by
Statute and by this Decision and Order.’

The SNHD has argued that it need not produce any patient
specific documents, nor any documents previously agreed to be
produced by Mr. Minagil which have not been produced, nor any
documents which the SNHD has termed to be either confidential or
privileged.

The first justification for SNHD’s position is the
‘Official Information Privilege” set forth in the provisions of
NRS 49.285. The Special Master ruled that so long as

“interviewed” patients or “interviewed” individuals were protected

2. The terminology “strongly encouraged” is a judicial euphemism for “just do it
now” and in so doing, retain flexibility to make decisions on what is and what is
not privileged. Simply throwing a uniform cloak over all documents and
declaring everything to be confidential may well result in an Order from this
Court to produce most, if not all, of the investigative files that relate to the
Hepatitis C investigation.




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 88155

f (

through redaction of personal information on the documents, or by
other means, that the provisions of NRS 49.285 were not a
sufficient basis te deny production of the documents. In
addition, the Special Master pointed out that the production of
these documents involved non-patient specific information.
Lastly, he noted that the “Public Officer” referred to in
NRS 49.285 had not been sought for examination and that the SNHD
had not established that the “public interest wouid suffer by the
disclosure.”

This Court agrees in principle with the Special Master's
Recommendation but for slightly different reasons. The “Official
Information Privilege” as set forth in NRS 49.285 is essentially
a very limited privilege. The language appears in Title IV, of
the Nevada Revised Statutes, under the heading “Witnesses and
Evidence”. The actual language appears in Chapter 49. Under this
Section denoted as “Privileges” the exact title of this Section
is “Public Officer as a Witness.” In simple terms, this is an
Evidence Code Section and deals with a privilege that Public
Officers can exert to prevent themselves from being asked to
testify in trial as to certain communications deemed to be made in
official confidence when the public interest would suffer by the
disclosure. Stated another way, this Section deals with the
communications that a public officer can be cross-examined on as
he or she sits in the witness box. This litigation is in the
discovery stage. The issue presented to this Court for decision

is a discovery decision. The privilege set forth in NRS 49.285 is


a


ALLAN BR. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

a trial decision that deals specifically with what evidence can be
made public by an Official from the SNHD testifying at trial.
This may well be an issue to be taken up later in this litigation
but it does not apply at this stage.

The SNHD has also argued that most, if not all, of the
documents, non-patient specific or otherwise, that have not
already been produced by the prior disclosures of the SNHD are
protected under the “Deliberative Process Privilege.” The
recommendation of the Special Master was that the “Deliberative
Process Privilege” did not apply to any documents already utilized
by the SNHD in producing interim reports and prior public
statements. His reasoning was that any documents or information
which had been relied on by the SNHD in producing interim reports
and statements were no longer deliberative and, therefore, did not
come within the privilege. The Special Master's view that any
reports or similar documents utilized by Mr. Labus in
“deliberating for a work in progress” did not remove the
discoverability which had already been established by the
conclusions reached in the reports and Statements.

The Special Master's Report and Recommendation did not
deal with the precise question of whether non-patient specific
documents which were utilized by the SNHD in originally producing
the interim reports and public statements were cloaked with a
“Deliberative Process Privilege” before the interim reports and
public statements were issued. The Special Master’s Report

indicated that since the interim report and public statements have




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

already been issued, whatever privilege existed with these
documents no longer exists and ruled that they should be produced.

It should be noted at the outset of the discussion on
the “Deliberative Process Privilege” that the final report on the
Hepatitis C investigation has not yet been prepared nor released.
Everyone in this litigation is waiting for it to be finalized and
published. Also, the “Deliberative Process Privilege” for
government officials comes from the common law and is identified
and described in Nevada Case Law. See DR Partners vs. Board of
County. Commissioners, 160 Nev. 616 (Nev. 2000). This privilege,
as with any privilege, raised by either Common Law or the Evidence
Code must be interpreted and applied narrowly. To be protected by
this privilege, the documents sought must be “pre-decisional and
deliberative.” Thus, out of necessity, the documents must point
to an agency decision or policy in which they were considered and
the decuments must contain opinions, recommendations or advice
about agency policies.

DECISION

After careful consideration, it is this Court's Decision
that the non-patient specific documents which the SNHD wishes to
withhold are indeed protected by the “Deliberative Process
Privilege” so long as the final report has not been finalized and
released. This Court disagrees with the Special Master’s opinion
that any documents relied on by the SNHD to produce an interim
report or public statements have lost whatever “Deliberative

Process Privilege” they may once have held. The documents in




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

( (
@ @

question, to this Court’s satisfaction, are “pre-decisional and
deliberative.”
Counsel for SNHD has made it clear that the Department is in the
process of formulating its final report. There are currently
thousands of documents, including health records, questionnaires,
investigative reports, interview notes, etc. that have been
gathered by the SNHD in investigating the Hepatitis C Outbreak.
Any documents which the SNHD deems to be pre-decisional,
deliberative, pointing to an agency decision or report or policy,
and consisting of opinion, recommendation or advice about agency
policies are protected and need not be produced. Any non-patient
specific documents that do not fall into one of these categories
and are not protected under other State and/or Federal Statutes
must be produced. As earlier stated, the SNHD is encouraged to
protect only those documents that are absolutely privileged and
confidential. The Court also notes that the process of deciding
which documents will and will not fall under the “Deliberative
Process Privilege” is inherently disruptive and until the final
report is produced and disseminated, the SNHD is directed to not
take any extraordinary measures to gather, review or catalogue
them.

The Defendants have argued strenuously, and the Special
Master agreed, that prior counsel for SNHD had waived any
“privilege” which may have applied to these non-patient specific
documents. This Court is well aware of the exact provisions of

NRS 49.385, which constitute the waiver of privilege by voluntary

i



ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

( (

disclosure. The Court has also read the letter dated August 5,
2008, produced by SNHD counsel Stephen Minagil, addressed to
Daniel B. Curriden, counsel for Defendants. A careful, word-for-
word reading of Mr. Minagil’s letter does not indicate a wholesale
waiver of the privileges which the SNHD now wishes to raise in
this matter. Mr. Minagil agrees in the letter that he is going to
gather e-mails and correspondence from employees other than Mr.
Labus. He then indicates that by August 15, 2008, he anticipates
having sufficient information to respond regarding the production
of e-mails and correspondence. This language does not constitute
a waiver. In another paragraph within that same letter, Mr.
Minagil indicates that once the final report is completed Mr.
Labus will then print, categorize and review e-mails for
production. However, this is a “conditional” waiver. The
conditions are: (1) that this will be done once the final report
is completed which is not the case now, and (2) the e-mails will
be produced if they do not contain personal health information.
This is nothing but a conditional waiver and the conditions have
not yet occurred.

In yet another paragraph within the same letter, Mr.

Minagil indicates that he will produce a printout of all documents

on the SNHD’s Sharepoint portal Cite. He agrees to produce that
printout so long as it does not contain personal health
information. Furthermore, the information on the Sharepoint
portal cite is not without certain protections, as outlined in NRS

441A.220 and the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) 441A.115. The




ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE

DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

( (
@ @

Gefinition of “information of a personal nature” is expansive and
to some degree comes within the discretionary authority of the
SNHD. The protection afforded to the confidentiality of such
information is significant. Such information “must not he
disclosed to any person under any circumstances, including
pursuant to any Subpoena, Search Warrant, or discovery
proceedings” with some exceptions. See NRS 441A.220. Any
information which is so sensitive and so confidential that it is
protected from a Court ordered Subpoena, a Court ordered Search
Warrant, or any other discovery proceeding is indeed protected
information.

In essence, this Court is of the opinion that Mr.
Minagil did not commit to a wholesale waiver of the privileges
which new counsel for the SNHD now wishes to assert. The SNHD is
cautioned once again not to use the Court’s opinion in this matter
as an all encompassing cloak to smother all production of any
documents it holds within its files.

In accordance with the size and importance of this
litigation currently pending in the Eighth Judicial District
Court, it is important that the SNHD continues to supply privilege
logs regarding the documents sought in Items 1, 2, 9, 10 and 11 as
set forth in a letter from Defendants’ counsel V. Andrew Cass,
dated December 4, 2008.

The Court adopts the recommendation of the Special
Master that any documents produced by the SNHD should initially be

produced and sent to representative counsel for Plaintiffs for


( (

review to allow Plaintiffs to assert any privilege as to these
documents prior to them being released to other parties.
ORDER
The Objections to the Special Master’s Report and
Recommendations, as raised by the SNHD, are APPROVED IN PART and
DENIED IN PART, as set forth above.

IT IS SO ORDERED this {day of april, 2009.


faved
i

filem- hk En

ALLAN R. EARL,
DISTRICT COURT JUDGE-DEPT. XIX

_.
hi



ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE
DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155


CERTIFICATE OF ELECTRONIC SERVICE

a

I hereby certify that on the 6 day of April, 2009, I
directed DAVID SORENSEN, Department XIX Law Clerk, to take the
foregoing DECISION AND ORDER to the Clerk’s Office to be e-filed
and served on the following by Electronic Service to:

ALL PARTIES ON THE E-SERVICE LIST


JUDICIAL EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT.
DEPARTMENT XIX



ALLAN R. EARL
DISTRICT JUDGE
DEPARTMENT NINETEEN
LAS VEGAS NV 89155

