OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(778) 688-2559



oo

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against NOase No. 08-4854-1
Fitep__/- 06-07
ALBERT COOK, M.D., thlberg\- yy Low
CLERK 6F THE BOARD
Respondent.

New ne! ee” ee” Nee Nee ee” Nee” ee”

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, and
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D. Member, at the time of the authorization of filing this formal
complaint, by and through Edward O. Cousineau, counsel for the Investigative Committee, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Albert Cook, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has
violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the
Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
December 5, 1976 license to practice medicine is currently inactive, and at all times alleged
herein, Respondent was licensed in inactive status by the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent was granted a license to practice medicine in the state of California on
or about June 24, 1966. On February 20, 2007, the state of California filed a two-count
Accusation against Respondent alleging Gross Negligence and Repeated Negligent Acts on the
part of Respondent. .

3. Thereafter, on or about March 26, 2008 the state of California adopted a

Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order revoking Respondent’s license to practice medicine

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



in the state of California, however, that revocation was stayed, and Respondent was placed on
probation with multiple conditions for a period of thirty-five months, beginning on
April 26, 2008. See Exhibit A.

4. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary
action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the
license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary
action.

5. The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of California constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

6. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its ‘findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 6" day of January, 2009.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF .
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O, Cousineau, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this 6" day of January, 2009.

eric

Charles N. Held, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 6" day of January 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT & Original
SETTLEMENT, WAIVER & CONSENT AGREEMENT, by mailing via USPS certified mail to

the following:

Albert Cook, M.D.
33620 Mapleton Ave., Apt. 1423
Murietta, CA 92563

Dated this 6" day of January 2009.

KL es Lhe
Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT
A
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against: )
ALBERT COOK, M.D. ) File No. 09-2005-165774
Physician's and Surgeon's )
Certificate No. A 22030 ) MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
) I do hereby certify that this document is a true
Respondent ) and correct copy of the original on file in this
. office.
Signature 4
Title

DECISION Date

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby adopted as the
Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs,
State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on ___ April 25, 2008

ITIS SO ORDERED _ warch 26. 2008

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

wy. hey A Aff 00

Cesar A. Aristeiguieta, Mp . F.A.C.E.P.
Chair
Panel A



§ €

EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California

STEVEN V. ADLER
Supervising Deputy Attorney General

MARY AGNES MATYSZEWSKI, State Bar No. 137858
Deputy Attorney General

110 West "A" Street, Suite 1100

San Diego, CA 92101

P.O. Box 85266

San Diego, CA 92186-5266
Telephone: (619) 645-3039
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 09-2005-165774
ALBERT COOK, M.D. OAH No. L-2007031014
33620 Mapleton Avenue, #1423
Murrieta, CA 92563 STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND
DISCIPLINARY ORDER

Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate
No. A 22030

Respondent.

ITIS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the

above-entitled proceedings that the following matters are true:
PARTIES

1. Barbara Johnston (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical
Board of California. She brought this action solely in her official capacity and is represented in
this matter by Edmund G. Brown Jr., Attorney General of the State of California, by Mary Agnes
Matyszewski, Deputy Attorney General.

2. Respondent ALBERT COOK, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this
proceeding by attorney Robert W. Frank, Esq., of Neil, Dymott, Frank, McFall & Trexler, APLC,
whose address is 1010 Second Avenue, Suite 2500, San Diego, CA 92101-4959.



6 c

3. On or about June 24, 1966, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. A 22030 to Albert Cook, M.D. (Respondent). The
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate was in full force and effect at all times relevant to the
charges brought in Accusation No. 09-2005-165774 and will expire on March 31, 2009, unless
renewed, .

JURISDICTION

4. Accusation No. 09-2005-165774 was filed before the Medical Board of
California, and is currently pending against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily
required documents were properly served on Respondent on February 20, 2007. Respondent
timely filed his Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation. A copy of Accusation No.
09-2005-165774 is attached as exhibit A and ‘incorporated herein by reference.
ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5. Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the
right to a hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to be represented by
counsel at his own expense; the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him;
the right to present evidence and to testify on his own behalf; the right to the issuance of
subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents; the right to
reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision; and all other rights accorded by the
California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws.

6. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up

each and every right set forth above.

CULPABILITY
7. Respondent admits the truth of each and every charge and allegation in
Accusation No. 09-2005-165774.
8. Respondent agrees that his Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate is subject

to discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Medical Board of California’s imposition of
discipline as set forth in the Disciplinary Order below.
Ml



f é

CONTINGENCY

9. This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of
California. Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the
Medical Board of California may communicate directly with the Medical Board of California
regarding this stipulation and settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or his
counsel. By signing the stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that he may not
withdraw his agreement or seek to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Medical Board of
California considers and acts upon it. If the Medical Board of California fails to adopt this
stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be of
no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal action between
the parties, and the Medical Board of California shall not be disqualified from further action by
having considered this matter.

10. This Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is intended by the
parties herein to be an integrated writing representing the complete, final and exclusive
embodiment of the agreements of the parties in the above-entitled matter.

11. The parties understand and agree that facsimile copies of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including facsimile signatures thereto, shall have the same
force and effect as the originals. |

12. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties
agree that the Medical Board may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter
the following Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. A
22030 issued to Respondent Albert Cook, M.D. (Respondent) is revoked. However, the
revocation is stayed and Respondent is placed on probation for thirty-five (35) months on the
following terms and conditions:
Ml
Mf




& &

1. CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION Within 60 calendar days of

the effective date of this Decision, and on an annual basis thereafter, respondent shal! submit to
the Medical Board or its designee for its prior approval educational program(s) or course(s)
which shall not be less than 15 hours per year, for each year of probation. The educational
program(s) or course(s) shall be aimed at correcting any areas of deficient practice or knowledge —
and shall be Category I certified, limited to classroom, conference, or seminar settings. The
educational program(s) or course(s) shall be at respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to
the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. Following the
completion of each course, the Medical Board or its designee may administer an examination to
test respondent's knowledge of the course. Respondent shall provide proof of attendance for 40

hours of continuing medical education of which 15 hours were in satisfaction of this condition.

2. CLINICAL TRAINING PROGRAM Within 365 calendar days of the
effective date of this Decision, respondent shall enroll in a clinical training or educational
program equivalent to the Physician Assessment and Clinical Education Program (PACE)
offered at the University of California - San Diego School of Medicine (“Program”).

The Program shall consist of a Comprehensive Assessment program comprised of
a two-day assessment of respondent’s physical and mental health; basic clinical and
communication skills common to all clinicians; and medical knowledge, skill and judgment
pertaining to respondent’s specialty or sub-specialty, and at minimum, a 40 hour program of
clinical education in the area of practice in which respondent was alleged to be deficient and
which takes into account data obtained from the assessment, Decision(s), Accusation(s), and any
other information that the Medical Board or its designee deems relevant. Respondent shall pay
all expenses associated with the clinical training program.

Based on respondent’s performance and test results in the assessment and clinical
education, the Program will advise the Medical Board or its designee of its recommendation(s)
for the scope and length of any additional educational or clinical training, treatment for any
medical condition, treatment for any psychological condition, or anything else affecting

respondent’s practice of medicine. Respondent shall comply with Program recommendations.



d &

At the completion of any additional educational or clinical training, respondent
shall submit to and pass an examination. The Program’s determination whether or not .
respondent passed the examination or successfully completed the Program shall be binding.

Respondent shall complete the Program not Jater than twelve months after
respondent’s initial enrollment unless the Medical Board or its designee agrees in writing to a
later time for completion.

Failure to participate in and complete successfully all phases of the clinical
training program outlined above is a violation of probation.

3. NOTIFICATION Prior to engaging in the practice of medicine, the

respondent shall provide a true copy of the Decision(s) and Accusation(s) to the Chief of Staff or
the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to
respondent, at any other facility where respondent engages in the practice of medicine, including
all physician and locim tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief Executive
Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to respondent.
Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Medical Board or its designee within 15
calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or

insurance carrier.

4.. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS During probation,
respondent is prohibited from supervising physician assistants. . | .

5. OBEY ALL LAWS Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local

laws, all rules governing the practice of medicine in California, and remain in full compliance
with any court ordered criminal probation, payments and other orders.

6. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS Respondent shall submit quarterly

declarations under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Medical Board, stating whether
there has been compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall submit

quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter.

Mil



é rs

7. PROBATION UNIT COMPLIANCE Respondent shall comply with

the Medical Board's probation unit. Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Medical Board
informed of respondent’s business and residence addresses. Changes of such addresses shall be
immediately communicated in writing to the Medical Board or its designee. Under no
circumstances shal] a post office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by
Business and Professions Code section 2021 (b).

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in respondenit’s place of
residence. Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and
surgeon’s license.
Respondent shall immediately inform the Medical Board, or its designee, in
writing, of travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is
contemplated to last, more than 30 calendar days.

8. INTERVIEW WITH THE MEDICAL BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE

Respondent shall be available in person for interviews either at respondent’s place of business or
at the probation unit office, with the Medical Board or its designee, upon request at various
intervals, and either with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

9. RESIDING OR PRACTICING OUT-OF-STATE In the event

respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to practice, respondent shall notify
the Medical Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and
return. Non-practice is defined as any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which
respondent is not engaging in any activities defined in Sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business
and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program outside the State of California

which has been approved by the Medical Board or its designee shall be considered as time spent

in the practice of medicine within the State. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be

considered as a period of non-practice. Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice
outside California will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term. Periods of temporary

or permanent residence or practice outside California will relieve respondent of the responsibility



é é

to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the exception of this condition and
the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws; Probation Unit Compliance;
and Cost Recovery.

Respondent’s license shal] be automatically canceled if respondent’s periods of
temporary or permanent residence or practice outside California total two years. However,
respondent’s license shall not be canceled as long as respondent is residing and practicing
medicine in another state of the United States and is on active probation with the medical
licensing authority of that state, in which case the two year period shal] begin on the date
probation is completed or terminated in that state.

10. FAILURE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE - CALIFORNIA RESIDENT

In the event respondent resides in the State of California and for any reason
respondent stops practicing medicine in California, respondent shall notify the Medical Board or
its designee in writing within 30 calendar days prior to the dates of non-practice and return to
practice. Any period of non-practice within California, as defined in this condition, will not
apply to the reduction of the probationary term and does not relieve respondent of the
responsibility to comply with the terms and conditions of probation. Non-practice is defined as
any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which respondent is not engaging in any
activities defined in sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program which has been approved by the
Medical Board or its designee shall be considered time spent in the practice of medicine. For
purposes of this condition, non-practice due to a Board-ordered suspension or in compliance with
any other condition of probation, shal] not be considered a period of non-practice.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically canceled if respondent resides in
California and for a total of two years, fails to engage in California in any of the activities
described in Business and Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052.

If
Ml
It



é é

11. COMPLETION OF PROBATION Respondent shall comply with all

financial obligations (e.g., cost recovery, restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar
days prior to the completion of probation. Upon successful completion of probation,
respondent's certificate shal] be fully restored.

12. VIOLATION OF PROBATION Failure to fully comply with any term

or condition of probation is a violation of probation. If respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Medical Board, after giving respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may
revoke probation and carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, Petition
to Revoke Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against respondent during
probation, the Medical Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the
period of probation shall be extended until the matter is final.

13. LICENSE SURRENDER Following the effective date of this Decision,

if respondent ceases practicing due to retirement, health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, respondent may request the voluntary surrender of
respondent’s license. The Medical Board reserves the right to evaluate respondent's request and
to exercise its discretion whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed
appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender,
respondent shal] within 15 calendar days deliver respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the
Medical Board or its designee and respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent
will no longer be subject to the terms and conditions of probation and the surrender of
respondent’s license shall be deemed disciplinary action. If respondent re-applies for a medical
license, the application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

14. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS Respondent shall pay the costs

associated with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the
Medical Board, which may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be payable to the
Medical Board of California and delivered to the Medical Board or its designee no later than
January 31 of each calendar year. Failure to pay costs within 30 calendar days of the due date is

a violation of probation.

[ww ay Le

~ 4118/2008

ne ne ete esa

Co) |

a
BANS RRRPSKR TSF &BaeAR ADE BHA ST wI

Ave VIsay palma vanvaid rho Wa Vlg COO 190C r

ACCEPTANCE .

T have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and
have fully discussed it with my attomey, Robert W. Frank, Esq. I understand the stipulation and
the effect it will have on my Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate. 1 enter into this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be
bound by the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California.
paTep:_A-|I4-6@

ee hee ein

I have read and fully discussed with Respondent Albert Cook, M.D. the terms and
conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary

Order. I approve its form and content.

TW.
Attomey for Respondent

DO
The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California.

DATED:_27 41-08

EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attomey General
of the State of California

STEVEN V. ADLER -
Supervising Deputy Attorney General

MARY A
Deputy Attomey General

Attomeys for Complainant |

» UI/US

12:46 g af Justice + 52381562 gE NO,746 be@1a

Exhibit A
Accusation No. 09-2005-165774
Wa



EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California

STEVEN V. ADLER

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

MARY AGNES MATYSZEWSKI, State Bar No. 137858
Deputy Attorney General

California Department of Justice | FILED

110 West "A" Street, Suite 1100

San Diego, CA 92101 STATE OF CALIFORNIA
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

P.O. Box 85266 SACRAMENTO Schirano 20 0]

San Diego, CA 92186-5266 BY LAk Cote MGR” ANALYST

Telephone: (619) 645-3039
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 09-2005-165774
ALBERT COOK, M.D. OAH No.
33620 Mapleton Avenue, #1423
Murrieta, CA 92563 ACCUSATION
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate
No. A 22030
Respondent.
Complainant alleges:
PARTIES
1, David T. Thornton (Complainant) brings this Accusation solely in his

official capacity as the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California.

2. On or about June 24, 1966, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate Number A 22030 to ALBERT COOK, M.D. (Respondent).
The Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate was in full force and effect at all times relevant to the
charges brought herein and will expire on March 31, 2009, unless renewed.

Mt

Ww

N

on © So,“ i

“13

23 |


JURISDICTION

3. This Accusation is brought before the Division of Medical Quality

(Division) for the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, under the

authority of the following sections of the Business and Professions Code ("Code"). All section

references are to the Business and Professions Code unless otherwise indicated.

Hl

4. Section 2227 of the Code states:

"(a) A licensee whose matter has been heard by an administrative law judge of
the Medical Quality Hearing Panel as designated in Section 11371 of the Government
Code, or whose default has been entered, and who is found guilty, or who has entered into
a stipulation for disciplinary action with the division, may, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter:

"(1) Have his or her license revoked upon order of the division.

"(2) Have his or her right to practice suspended for a period not to exceed
one year upon order of the division.

"(3) Be placed on probation and be required to pay the costs of probation
monitoring upon order of the division.

"(4) Be publicly reprimanded by the division.

"(5) Have any other action taken in relation to discipline as part of an order
of probation, as the division or an administrative law judge may deem proper.

"(b) Any matter heard pursuant to subdivision (a), except for warning
letters, medical review or advisory conferences, professional competency
examinations, continuing education activities, and cost reimbursement associated.
therewith that are agreed to with the division and successfully completed. by the
licensee, or other matters made confidential or privileged by existing law, is

deemed public, and shall be made available to the public by the board pursuant to. .

Section 803.1."


Mt

Jf é

5. Section 2234 of the Code states:

"The Division of Medical Quality shall take action against any licensee who
is charged with unprofessional conduct. In addition to other provisions of this
article, unprofessional conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:

"(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, assisting in or
abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate any provision of this chapter
[Chapter 5, the Medical Practice Act].

"(b) Gross negligence.

"(c) Repeated negligent acts. To be repeated, there must be two or more
negligent acts or omissions. An initial negligent act or omission followed by a
separate and distinct departure from the applicable standard of care shall constitute
repeated negligent acts.

"(1) An initial negligent diagnosis followed by-an act or omission
medically appropriate for that negligent diagnosis of the patient shall constitute a
single negligent act.

"(2) When the standard of care requires a change in the diagnosis, act, or
omission that constitutes the negligent act described in paragraph (1), including,
but not limited to, a reevaluation of the diagnosis or a change in treatment, and the
licensee's conduct departs from the applicable standard of care, each departure
constitutes a separate and distinct breach of the standard of care. °

"(d) Incompetence.

"(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption which
is substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and

surgeon.

"(f) Any action or conduct which would have warranted the denial ofa

certificate.

oe 39

17)

bo

1]




2]

é €

FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Gross Negligence)

6. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action pursuant to Section

2234, subdivision (b) of the Code, in that respondent was grossly negligent in his care and

treatment of the patient listed below. The circumstances are as follows:

A, On or about July 1, 2003, patient Herminia H., a 59-year-old
female, presented to respondent for the second of three cervico-thoracic epidural
steroid injections, which respondent had recommended because of the patient’s
cervical pain.

B. According to his operative report, respondent placed the patient in
the prone position and sedated her using Versed and Sublimaze (aka Fentany)).
Respondent noted that, “Under fluroscopy I identified the anatomical landmarks
and I infiltrated 1% lidocaine using a 27-gauge needle into the intralaminar space
betweenT2-3.” Respondent recorded he “then placed an 18-gauge Tuohy epidural
needle into the intralaminar space” and injected contrast material to “perform an
epidurogram which delineated the patient’s epidural space.” Respondent further
documented that he “then placed an epidural catheter into the needle and placed the
catheter up to C6 on the left lateral aspect of the. epidural space.” Respondent next
injected additional contrast material, 4 ml of 0.25% marcaine and 12 mg. of
Celestone-Soluspan. Throughout the procedure, respondent directly supervised a
registered nurse to administer “moderate sedation” with intravenous agents.

C. In actuality, respondent was not in the patient’s epidural space but
had punctured her dura (spinal column) and was injecting his materials directly
into her spinal column.

Dz. Respondent admitted during his interview that as he was
withdrawing his epidural needle the patient’s head “jerked up.” Respondent also
admitted he immediately left the operating room before the patient was taken to the

recovery room, turning her care over to his nurse.


7)

17a)

“sD

1]



2]

é €

E. At the conclusion of the procedure, the patient’s pulse was 40 and
she was suffering from total spinal anesthesia, a condition respondent did not
recognize.

F. The patient was transferred to the recovery room where, a few
minutes later, she suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest which led to hypoxic
encephalopathy resulting in permanent neurological injury.

7. Respondent has committed acts or omissions constituting gross

negligence during his care and treatment of this patient in violation of Section 2234,
subdivision (b), in that:

A. Respondent failed to monitor the patient for several minutes
following the procedure.

B. Respondent prematurely transferred the care of the patient to his
nurse.

C. Respondent failed to recognize the patient was suffering from total
spinal anesthesia.

Dz. Respondent failed to recognize the patient was suffering inadequate

ventilation.

SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

( Repeated Negligent Acts)
8. Respondent is further subject to disciplinary action pursuant to
Section 2234, subdivision (c) of the Code, in that respondent was repeatedly negligent in
his care and treatment of the patient listed below. The circumstances are as follows: |
A. Paragraphs 6 and 7 are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein. .
B, Respondent improperly used propofol for sedation in addition to
the Versed and Fentanyl.

C. Respondent failed to recognize he had punctured the patient’s dura.

Hl

to

uo

1]

PRAYER
WHEREFORE, Complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters

herein alleged, and that following the hearing, the Division of Medical Quality issue a

decision:

1. Revoking or suspending Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate
Number A 22030, issued to Albert Cook, M.D. |

2. Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Albert Cook, M.D.'s
authority to supervise physician's assistants, pursuant to section 3527 of the Code;

3. Ordering Albert Cook, M.D., if placed on probation, to pay the
Division of Medical Quality the costs of probation monitoring; and

4. Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and

proper.

DATED: February 20, 2007

DAVID T. THORNTON
Executive Director

Medical Board of California
State of California
Complainant

$D2007800164

80114818.wpd

