1105 Terminal Way #301
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89502

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL




COPY

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

oe 7
In the Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against ) Case No. 08-4854-1
ALBERT COOK, M.D., ) FILED
Respondent. ) MAY 42 2009
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of Charles N. Held,
M.D., Chairman, Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, and Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., member by and
through IC counsel, Edward O. Cousineau, and Albert Cook, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about December 30, 2008, the IC of the Board filed a formal complaint
in the above-referenced matter, charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630), to wit: revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to
practice medicine in another jurisdiction, a violation of NRS 630.301(3).

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands the
nature and significance of the Compiaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice
Act (NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B),
including but not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to
representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to

confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



witnesses on his own behalf, the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to
waive all of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited
to the right to a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order,
and he agrees to settle and resolve this matter of the formal complaint against him by way of, and in
accordance with, this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly
meeting, duly noticed, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but
that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement;
and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board approves
the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s IC; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has reviewed and understands all the relevant facts and
circumstances of this matter and after due consideration concedes that his active license to practice
medicine in California has been suspended, modified and or limited as outlined in the Complaint
filed by the IC of the Board in this case.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against him by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the IC hereby

agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject

M/

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Bs
wee
Bagh
ae
eget
ga

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical
Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented
by counsel, but that he understands that he had the right to consult with counsel prior to entering into
this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this
Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently, and as such, waives all rights arising under or
pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630
and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the
proceeding on the complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint and the adjudication of the
charges in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action
commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement
without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent violated one or more
provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him,
finding that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act to wit: revocation, suspension,
modification or limitation of his California license to practice medicine, a violation of
NRS 630.301(3), and ordering that Respondent’s Nevada license to practice medicine be
revoked, with that revocation stayed, and that Respondent’s license be placed in a probationary
status until March 25, 2011, that Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, and that he remain in
compliance with the following terms and conditions:

a. that Respondent both has, and shall continue to, comply with all the terms and
conditions set forth by the California Medical Board in its Decision which became effective on

April 25, 2008, (see Exhibit A);

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

WN

om rN AW


b. that Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Board (hereinafter
“Compliance Officer”) within thirty (30) days of the approval and acceptance of this Agreement
in order to provide information regarding the most expeditious method of contacting him;

c. that Respondent shall sign a release of information allowing the Board to
communicate with the California Medical Board regarding Respondent’s compliance with the
terms of his California probation or provide proof of completion of said probation and
reinstatement of his license without restrictions;

d. that Respondent shall comply with all federal, state and local laws and rules
governing the practice of medicine in Nevada at all times he is practicing within the state;

e. that Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Compliance Officer, or any other
designated person, in the administration and enforcement of this Agreement;

f. that Respondent agrees to pay the costs of investigation and prosecution of this
matter in the current amount of $1,547.72, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any,
within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by
the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent
pursuant to the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or
acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.
Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters
concerning this Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint, any and all evidence
that may exist in support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent.

7. Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available
Agenda of a regularly scheduled and duly noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly

By
See
B38
Ese
é

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



understood that this Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the
recommendation of the IC for acceptance.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order finding Respondent violated NRS
630.301(3), which states that the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to
practice medicine by another jurisdiction is grounds for discipline, when his California license to
practice medicine was suspended and/or modified.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence
of bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary

action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The IC hereby

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301



agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the
understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

11. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a
binding andenforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

12. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event
either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

13. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

14. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving
this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would
then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in
addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the Board in accordance

with NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Dated this eo” y of Pang 2009.

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Ml
Ml
Ml
Ml
Ml
Ml

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



I am in agreement with all of the terms of the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent
Agreement signed on the Vil day of
the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

Dated this (|_day of _ATaacH— 2009.

2009, by Edward O. Cousineau, Attorney for

Signature of Albert Cook, M.D.
G C ae) A subscribed and sworn to before me
Albert Cook, M.D. Vv this___day of 2009
Respondent

Notary Public

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8"" day of May,
2009, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,547.72.

CHARLES N. HELD, President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

