

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

a a

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 08-9241-1

Complaint Against ) F

‘ FILED
ELADIO SANTANA CARRERA, M.D.,_) JUL 01 2009


NEVADA STATE BOA:
Respondent. MEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of Charles N. Held, M.D, Chairman,
Benjamin Rodriguez, M.D, member, and Jean Stoess, M.A., member, by and through counsel
Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Eladio Santana Carrera, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel
David Mortensen, Esq., and Thomas F. Pitaro, Esq., as follows:
WHEREAS, in June 2009, the Board’s IC filed a Second Amended Complaint in the above
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant tq
the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: three counts of engaging in
conduct that brings the medical profession in to disrepute, violations of NRS 630.301 (9); and
WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Second Amended Complaint,
understands it, and has consulted with competent counsel David J. Mortensen, Esq. and Thomas F. Pitaro,
Esq., concerning the nature and significance of the Second Amended Complaint and Respondent is fully
advised concerning his rights and defenses to the complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be
imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act and after due consideration and consultation with his counsel,
concedes that the Board has evidence contending that Respondent brought the medical profession into
disrepute as set forth in counts I, II and III of the Second Amended Complaint; and
IH



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by ‘and
between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the Investigative

Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a Board meeting,


appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall advocate approval of this Agreement by
the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this
Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that if the
Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s
Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the Investigative
Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary proceedings

pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the Second Amended
Complaint or to any further amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered
herein by the Board finding that there is evidence that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds fof
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: three counts of engaging in conduct that brought the

medical profession into disrepute as set forth in counts I, II and II of the Second Amended Complaint,


violations of NRS 630.301(9); and ordering that Respondent be placed on twenty-four (24) months o
probation with the following conditions:

a. that Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

b. that Respondent shall be fined $5000 per count for a total of $15,000 to be paid withit
twelve (12) months of the acceptance of this agreement by the Board;

c. that Respondent shall not participate in any practice of gastroenterology without an
appropriate level of control regarding practices and policies which affect patients during the time of his

probation;

I



d. | that Respondent shall agree to testify truthfully as a fact witness at the Board disciplinary
hearings regarding matters pertaining to the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada, the time and date of

which are yet to be fixed. The Investigative Committee is satisfied that Dr. Carrera could provide testimony

or)

that may be valuable and important in formal disciplinary proceedings relating to the Endoscopy Center o
Southern Nevada. If Respondent’s testimony in such proceedings is materially different than the
information provided to the Investigative Committee, Respondent agrees that he shall be subject to the
imposition of further discipline by the Board in this matter, the nature of which shall be determined, by th¢
Board after a hearing, and that Respondent shall be ordered to appear before the Board before the
imposition of any such additional discipline;

e. that Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in th¢
investigation and prosecution of this case, the amount to be negotiated and to be paid to the Nevada Stat¢
Board of Medical Examiners within twelve (12) months of the acceptance of this Agreement by the
Board; .

f. that Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (hereinafter “Compliance Officer”) within thirty (30) days of the approval and
acceptance of this Agreement in order to provide information regarding the most expeditious method of
contacting him;

g. that Respondent shall agree to pay the reasonable costs, if any, of monitoring his probation
to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and shall pay said costs within thirty (30) days of the
due date of any invoice presented by the Board.

h. that the temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction currently in place and
initiated by the Attorney General’s office on behalf of the Board against Dr. Carrera in Clark County
bear there own costs and attorney fees in the District Court matter.

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the above}
captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to th¢
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act (NR$

(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.




3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreemen|

knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with counsel prior to entering
into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained
herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of above identified counsel,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to his or that may apply to his in
connection with the proceeding regarding the complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be settled and resolved im
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right tq
judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have nq

force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States


Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may
be available to his or that may apply to his in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4, Acknowledgement _ of Basis to Proceed. Respondent recognizes that the Board’s

Investigative Committee has a basis to believe that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the

Medical Practice Act.

5. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this Agreement

will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the Investigative Committee for
acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the Investigative Committee shall recommend
approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the Board in resolution
of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the complaint. In the
course of seeking Board approval of this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate
this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and
communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part
or on the part of his counsel, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that
such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this

Agreement, the complaint and the allegation therein, any and all evidence that may exist in support of



the complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the complaint against
Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that Respondent and his counsel may
appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed.in order to respond to any and all
questions that may be addressed to the Investigative Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

6. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves, accepts

and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver and
Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

7. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of
no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement regarding disqualification
of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this
Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of th¢
Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board
shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against
Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the
case, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence
of bad faith.

8. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself, his

executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the Board]
the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their representative
capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and all manner of
actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known
and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this
investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the
complaint so long as the agreement as stated is adopted in full, and without alteration, by the Board. The
Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to

claims related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

a HD WN


22 ¢


9. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and

enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving this

Agreement, upon receipt of credible information that Respondent has failed to comply with any term or
condition of this Order, the Board’s President, Vice-President, or Secretary/Treasurer shall be
authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license until Respondent complies with the term or
condition. Failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Furthermore, any failure to pay any fine, fee, or cost ordered herein will also

result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

AL
Dated this OY pa of 2009.

—Se

, aS LZ—C
An E. Beggs, Fea.) a

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

a .
mas F. Pitaro, Esq.

— i ar Attomey for Respondent

Eladio Santana Carrera, M.D. Respondent
Dated this*2~ day of —7UV-=, 2009



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 1" day of July, 2009.

~ Peas Ld

RENEE WEST, Secretary/Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

