OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and
Case No. 09-10032-1

Complaint Against )
MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D., ) FILED
) pec 23 2009
Respondent. ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
) MEDICAL EXAMINERS

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
of Charles N. Held, M.D., Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., and Jean Stoess, M. A., at the time of the
authorization of filing this formal complaint, by and through Edward O. Cousineau, counsel for the
Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Maryanne Phillips, M.D.,
hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby
issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as
follows:

1. Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
December 21, 1995, Respondent’s license to practice medicine is currently in active status, and at
all times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. On or about December 2, 2008 and in lieu of formal disciplinary proceedings,
Respondent entered into a Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order with the Medical Board
of California, which was accepted and became effective on or about April 6, 2009, the terms of
which revoked Respondent’s license to practice medicine, with the revocation stayed, and
requiring Respondent to comply with various terms as conditions of probation. (See Exhibit 1)

3. On or about May 8, 2009, Respondent renewed her licensee with the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners for the 2009-2011 licensure biennium. Question 9 of the renewal

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



application asked “[h]ave you had a medical license or license to practice any other healing art
revoked, suspended, limited, or restricted in any state, country or U.S. territory?” Respondent
answered in the negative.

COUNT I

4 All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

5. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary
action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the
license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary
action.

6. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

COUNT IT
7. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.
8. Respondent failed to report to the Board the stayed revocation of her license in the

state of California during the most.recent renewal of licensure process. Section 630.304(1) of the
Nevada Revised Statutes provides thatobtaining, maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain,
maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any
false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement is grounds for disciplinary action.

9. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.304(1) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her, the time

and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against her;

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 23" day of December, 2009.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 23"! day of December 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT w/ exhibit,
FINGERPRINT INFORMATION, and copy of appointment letter by mailing USPS certified

mail to the following:

Maryanne Phillips, M.D.
3540 W. Sahara Ave., Box 434
Las Vegas, NV 89102

Dated this 23 day of December 2009.

7 ON

Far trap —_—

— t
Laurie L. Munson

EXHIBIT
oN

4 BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the, Matter of the Accusation )
Against: )
MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D. ) File No. 09-2004-161866

Physician's and Surgeon's )
Certificate No. A 63753 )

Respondent ) RECEIVED

APR 2 7 2009
NEVADA STATE BOARD ¢:
DECISION MEDICAL EXAM'NERS

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby adopted as the
Decision and Order of the Division of Medical Quality of the Medical Board of California,
‘Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on April 6, 2009 .

IT IS SOORDERED March 5, 2009 .

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

By:

Barbara Yaroslavsky/, [
Chair, Panel © f



EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California
THOMAS S. LAZAR
Supervising Deputy Attorney General
SAMUEL K. HAMMOND, State Bar No. 141135
Deputy Attorney General
110 West "A" Street, Suite 1100
San Diego, CA 92101

P.O. Box 85266 »;

San Diego, CA 92186-5266
Telephone: (619) 645-2083
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:

MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D.
5201 Brookmere Drive
Las Vegas, NV 89130

Physician's and Surgeon's
Certificate No. A 63753

Respondent.

Case No. 09-2004-161866
OAH No. L-2006100651

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND
DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the

above-entitled proceedings that the following matters are true:

PARTIES

1. Barbara Johnston (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical

Board of California. She brought this action solely in her official capacity and is represented in

this matter by Edmund G. Brown Jr., Attorney General of the State of California, by Samuel K.

Hammond, Deputy Attorney General.
if


-tReoN YN Red &

2. Respondent Maryanne Phillips, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this
proceeding by attorney Cary W. Miller, Esq., whose address is 101 W. Broadway, Suite 1330,
San Diego, CA 92101-8214. —

3. On or about October 24, 1997, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. A 63753 to Maryanne Phillips, M.D. (Respondent).
The Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate was in full force and effect at all times relevant to the
charges brought in Accusation No. 09-2004-161866 and will expire on September 30, 2009,

unless renewed.

JURISDICTION

4. — Onor about August 21, 2006, Accusation No. 09-2004-161866 was filed
before the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California
(hereinafter “Board”), and is currently pending against Respondent. A true and correct copy of
the Accusation and all other statutorily required documents were properly served on Respondent
on August 21, 2006. Respondent timely filed her Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation.
A true and correct copy of Accusation No. 09-2004-161866 is attached as Exhibit A and

incorporated herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and
understands the charges and allegations in Accusation No. 09-2004-161866. Respondent has
also carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

6. Respondent is fully aware of her legal rights in this matter, including the
right to a hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to confront and
cross-examine the witnesses against her; the right to present evidence and to testify on her own
behalf; the right to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of documents; the right to reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision;
and all other rights accorded by the California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable

laws.



7. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up

each and every right set forth above.
CULPABILITY

8. Respondent does not contest that'at an administrative hearing,
Complainant could establish a prima facie case with respect to the charges and allegations
contained in Accusation No. 09-2004-161866, and that she has thereby subjected her Physician’s
and Surgeon’s Certificate No. A No. A 63753 to disciplinary action. Respondent agrees to the
bound by the Board’s imposition of discipline as set forth in the Disciplinary Order below.
CONTINGENCY

9. The parties agree that this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order
shall be submitted to the Board for its consideration in the above-entitled matter and, further, that
the Board shall have a reasonable period of time in which to consider and act on this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order after receiving it.

10. The parties agree that this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order
shall be null and void and not binding upon the parties unless approved and adopted by the
Board, except for this paragraph, which shall remain in full force and effect. Respondent fully
understands and agrees that in deciding whether or not to approve and adopt this Stipulated .
Settlement and Disciplinary Order, the Board may receive oral and written communications from
its staff and/or the Attorney General's office. Communications pursuant to this paragraph shall
not disqualify the Board, any member thereof, and/or any other person from future participation
in this or any other matter affecting or involving respondent. In the event that the Board, in its
discretion, does not approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, with
the exception of this paragraph, it shall not become effective, shall be of no evidentiary value
whatsoever, and shall not be relied upon or introduced in any disciplinary action by either party
hereto. Respondent further agrees that should the Board reject this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order for any reason, respondent will assert no claim that the Board, or any member
thereof, was prejudiced by its/his/her review, discussion and/or consideration of this Stipulated

Settlement and Disciplinary Order or of any matter or matters related hereto.



ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

11. This Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is intended by the
parties herein to be an integrated writing representing the complete, final and exclusive
embodiment of the agreements of the parties in the above-entitled matter.

12. The parties understand and agree that facsimile copies of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including facsimile signatures thereto, shall have the same
force and effect as the originals.

13. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties
agree that the Board may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the
following Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. A
63753 issued to Respondent Maryanne Phillips, M.D. is revoked. However, the revocation is
stayed and Respondent is placed on probation for three (3) years (from the effective date of the
Decision) based on the following terms and conditions. | |

1. PRESCRIBING PRACTICES COURSE Within 60 calendar days of the

effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in prescribing practices, at
Respondent’s expense, approved in advance by the Board or its designee. Failure to successfully
complete the course during the first 6 months of probation is a violation of probation.

A prescribing practices course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in
the Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the
Board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would
have been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective
date of this Decision. | .

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or
its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later .
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

Mf



2. MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE Within 60 calendar days of |

the effective date of this decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in medical record keeping,
at Respondent’s expense, approved in advance by the Board or its designee. Failure to
successfully complete the course during the first 6 months of probation is a violation of
probation.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges
in the Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the
Board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would
have been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective
date of this Decision. |

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or
its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

3. ETHICS COURSE Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this

Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in ethics, at Respondent’s expense, approved in
advance by the Board or its designee. Failure to successfully complete the course during the first
year of probation is a violation of probation.

An ethics course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or
its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

4, CLINICAL TRAINING PROGRAM Within 60 calendar days of the

effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a clinical training or educational

Hl



program equivalent to the Physician Assessment and Clinical Education Program (PACE)
offered at the University of California - San Diego School of Medicine (“Program’’).

The Program shall consist of a Comprehensive Assessment program comprised of
a two-day assessment of Respondent’s physical and mental health; basic clinical and |
communication skills common to all clinicians; and medical knowledge, skill and judgment
pertaining to Respondent’s specialty or sub-specialty, and at minimum, a 40 hour program of
clinical education in the area of practice in which Respondent was alleged to be deficient and
which takes into account data obtained from the assessment, Decision(s), Accusation(s), and any
other information that the Board or its designee deems relevant. Respondent shall pay all
expenses associated with the clinical training program.

Based on Respondent’s performance and test results in the assessment and clinical

{| education, the Program will advise the Board or its designee of its recommendation(s) for the

scope and length of any additional educational or clinical training, treatment for any medical
condition, treatment for any psychological condition, or anything else affecting Respondent’s
practice of medicine. Respondent shall comply with Program recommendations.

At the completion of any additional educational or clinical training, Respondent
shall submit to and pass an examination. The Program’s determination whether or not
Respondent passed the examination or successfully completed the Program shall be binding.

Respondent shall complete the Program not later than six months after

Respondent’s initial enrollment unless the Board or its designee agrees in writing to a later time

| for completion.

Failure to participate in and complete successfully all phases of the clinical

training program outlined above is a violation of probation.

Respondent shall not practice as a pain management physician and shall not
undertake the management, treatment or care of chronic pain patients in California until
Respondent has successfully completed the Program and has been so notified by the Board or its
designee in writing. Respondent may practice as pain management physician in a clinical

training program approved by the Board or its designee.


bho bo we) bo tr nN bo NO INS pent ay pene pene ory —_ pene — pene —

5. NOTIFICATION Prior to engaging in the practice of medicine in

California, the Respondent shall provide a true copy of the Decision(s) and Accusation(s) to the
Chief of Staff or the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership
are extended to Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of
medicine, including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the
Chief Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage
to Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board or its designee within
15 calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or

insurance carrier.

6. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS During probation,

Respondent is prohibited from supervising physician assistants in California.

7. OBEY ALL LAWS Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local
laws, all rules governing the practice of medicine in California, and remain in full compliance
with any court ordered criminal probation, payments and other orders.

8. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS Respondent shall submit quarterly

declarations under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has
been compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall submit quarterly

declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter.

9. PROBATION UNIT COMPLIANCE Respondent shal! comply with the
Board's probation unit. Respondent shail, at all times, keep the Board informed of Respondent’s
business and residence addresses. Changes of such addresses shall be immediately
communicated in writing to the Board or its designee. Under no circumstances shall a post office
box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business and Professions Code section
2021(b).

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s home.
Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and surgeon’s license.

Ml


—_
Oo


Respondent shall immediately inform the Board, or its designee, in writing, of
travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last,

more than 30 calendar days.

10. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE Respondent

shall be available in person for interviews either at Respondent’s place of business or at the
probation unit office, with the Board or its designee, upon request at various intervals, and either .
with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

11. RESIDING OR PRACTICING OUT-OF-STATE In the event

Respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to practice, Respondent shall notify
the Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and return.
Non-practice is defined as any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which Respondent is
not engaging in any activities defined in Sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions
Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program outside the State of California
which has been approved by the Board or its designee shall be considered as time spent in the
practice of medicine within the State. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be
considered as a period of non-practice. Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice
outside California will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term. Periods of temporary
or permanent residence or practice outside California will relieve Respondent of the
responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the exception of this
condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws; Probation Unit
Compliance; and Cost Recovery.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically canceled if Respondent’s periods of
temporary or permanent residence or practice outside California total two years. However,
Respondent’s license shall not be canceled as long as Respondent is residing and practicing
medicine in another state of the United States and is on active probation with the medical
licensing authority of that state, in which case the two year period shall begin on the date

probation is completed or terminated in that state.



> SR eR BW FB FS F&F FS Cer_sankwktzt—anes

12. FAILURE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE - CALIFORNIA RESIDENT

In the event Respondent resides in the State of California and for any reason
Respondent stops practicing medicine in California, Respondent shall notify the Board or its
designee in writing within 30 calendar days prior to the dates of non-practice and return to
practice. Any period of non-practice within California, as defined in this condition, will not
apply to the reduction of the probationary term and does not relieve Respondent of the
responsibility to comply with the terms and conditions of probation. Non-practice is defined as
any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which Respondent is not engaging in any
activities defined in sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program which has been approved by the
Board or its designee shall be considered time spent in the practice of medicine. For purposes of
this condition, non-practice due to a Board-ordered suspension or in compliance with any other
condition of probation, shall not be considered a period of non-practice.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically canceled if Respondent resides in
California and for a total of two years, fails to engage in California in any of the activities .
described in Business and Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052.

13. COMPLETION OF PROBATION Respondent shall comply with all

financial obligations (e.g., probation monitoring costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to
the completion of probation. Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent's certificate

shall be fully restored.
14. VIOLATION OF PROBATION Failure to fully comply with any term or

condition of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke
probation and carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, Petition to
Revoke Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation,
the Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation
shall be extended until the matter is final. | .

Hi


euaag &oBFK FSF Ge UAABDR GEER ES

15. LICENSESURRENDER Following the effective date of this Decision, if

Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement, health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request the voluntary surrender of
Respondent’s license. The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent's request and to
exercise its discretion whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed
appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender,
Respondent shall within 15 calendar days deliver Respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the
Board or its designee and Respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no
longer be subject to the terms and conditions of probation and the surrender of Respondent’s
license shall be deemed disciplinary action. If Respondent re-applies for a medical license, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

16. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS Respondent shall pay the costs

associated with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the
Board, which may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be payable to the Medical
Board of California and delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 of each
calendar year. Failure to pay costs within 30 calendar days of the due date is a violation of
probation.

Me

Ml

Ml

//f

Ml

Ml


HI

Ml

Hl

Ml


DEC+02-2008 TUE 02:06 PM HOMPER, LUNDY & BOOKIAN

FAX NO. 1 619 230 0987

P, 03

12/02/2008 09:56 FAX . | v Goozro0z

i

~-Hov-25-208 TUE 04:04 PH DEPT. OF JUSTIOE/ATTY GEN = FAX NO. 1819646206 |

as



Pe 12

ACCEPTANCE
T have carefitily read the above Stipulated Settlement and Discipiinary Order aud

have fully discugsed it with my attomey, Cary W. Miller, oq. ! anderstand the. stipulation and
the effect it will have on my Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate Na, A 63753, | enter into this

‘Stipulated Settlament and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intel'igently, and agree

to be bound by the Decision and Order of the Madical Bourd of Californie, Department of
Consume Affaira, State of California

DATED £2 2LOK
M . ,

Rospondent

Thave read and filly discussed with Respondent Maryanne Phi lips, M.D. the
terms ani! conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlanent and

Disciplinary Order. { approve its form and content.
naten:_)2/2]o%

Adarnsy forR ondent "

if


> ®@awtw F Bs =F FSF Ce AAARBH AS

ENDORSEMENT

The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer

Affairs, State of California.

DATED: 12/3] og |

EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California ,

THOMAS S. LAZAR
Supervising Deputy Attorney General

SAMUEL K. HAMMOND
Deputy Attorney General

Attorneys for Complainant

DOJ Matter 1D: $D2006700588

80312627.wpd


Exhibit A
Accusation No. 09-2004-161866
i




( ( FILED

~ STATE OF CALIFORNIA
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
BILL LOCKYER, Attorney General .
ofthe State of Califomia SACRAMENTO (Ag, &/, 2006
STEVEN H. ZEIGEN, State Bar No. 60225 BY {ye nd AG bbz ANAWST
Deputy Attorney General

California Department of Justice
110 West "A" Street, Suite 1100
San Diego, CA 92101

P.O. Box 85266

San Diego, CA 92186-5266
Telephone: (619) 645-2074
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against: _| Case No. 09-2004-161866
MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D. OAH No.

5201 Brookmere Drive
Las Vegas, NV 89130 ACCUSATION

Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate
No. A 63753

Respondent.

Complainant alleges:
PARTIES
1, David T. Thornton (Complainant) brings this Accusation solely in his
official capacity as the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California, Department of

Consumer Affairs and not otherwise.

2. On or about October 24, 1997, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate Number A 63753 to MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D.
(Respondent). The Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate was in full force and effect at all times
relevant to the charges brought herein and will expire on September 30, 2007, unless renewed.

Mf

Oo CO “TN


14 jj.


16.


18 {

' 20



JURISDICTION
3. This Accusation is brought before the Division of Medical Quality
(Division) for the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, under the
authority of the following laws. All section references are to the Business and Professions Code
unless otherwise indicated.

A. Section 2227 of the Code provides that a licensee who is found guilty
under the Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended for a
period not to exceed one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of
probation monitoring, or such other action taken in relation to discipline as the Division
deems proper.

B. Section 2220 of the Code states:

"Except as otherwise provided by law, the Division of Medical Quality may take
action against all persons guilty of violating this chapter [Chapter 5, the Medical Practice
Act]. The division shall enforce and administer this article as to physician and surgeon
certificate holders, and the division shall have all the powers granted in this chapter for
these purposes including, but not limited to:

"(a) Investigating complaints from the public, from other licensees, from health
care facilities, or from a division of the board that a physician and surgeon may be guilty
of unprofessional conduct. The board shall investigate the circumstances underlying any
report received pursuant to Section 805 within 30 days to determine if an interim
suspension order or temporary restraining order should be issued. The board shall
otherwise provide timely disposition of the reports received pursuant to Section 805.

"(b) Investigating the circumstances of practice of any physician and surgeon
where there have been any judgments, settlements, or arbitration awards requiring the
physician and surgeon or his or her professional liability insurer to pay an amount in
damages in excess of a cumulative total of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) with respect
to any claim that injury or damage was proximately caused by the physician's and |
surgeon's error, negligence, or omission. | |

2.

bo



"(c) Investigating the nature and causes of injuries from cases which shall be
reported of a high number of judgments, settlements, or arbitration awards against a
physician and surgeon." |

C. Section 2234 of the Code states:

"The Division of Medical Quality shall take action against any licensee who is
charged with unprofessional conduct. In addition to other provisions of this article,
unprofessional conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:

"(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, assisting in or
abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate any provision of this chapter [Chapter 5,
the Medical Practice Act].

"(b) Gross negligence.

"(c) Repeated negligent acts. To be repeated, there must be two or more
negligent acts or omissions. An initial negligent act or omission followed by a separate
and distinct departure from the applicable standard of care shall constitute repeated
negligent acts.

"(1). An initial negligent diagnosis followed by an act or omission medically
appropriate for that negligent diagnosis of the patient shall constitute a single negligent
act.

"(2) When the standard of care requires a change in the diagnosis, act, or
omission that constitutes the negligent act described in paragraph (1), including, but not
limited to, a reevaluation of the diagnosis or a change in treatment, and the licensee's
conduct departs from the applicable standard of care, each departure constitutes a separate
and distinct breach of the standard of care.

"(d) Incompetence.

"(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption which is.
substantially related to the qualifications,. functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon.

"(f) Any action or conduct which would have warranted the denial of a certificate.

1 off



'. 16



. 28


D. Section 2238 of the Code states:

"A violation of any federal statute or federal regulation or any of the statutes or
regulations of this state regulating dangerous drugs or controlled substances constitutes
unprofessional conduct."

E. Section 2241 of the Code states:

"Unless otherwise provided by this section, the prescribing, selling, furnishing,
giving away, or administering or offering to prescribe, sell, furnish, give away, or
administer any of the drugs or compounds mentioned in Section 2239 to an addict or
habitué constitutes unprofessional conduct.

"Tf the drugs or compounds are administered or applied by a licensed physician
and surgeon or by a registered nurse acting under his or her instruction and supervision,
this section shall not apply to any of the following cases:

"(a) Emergency treatment of a patient whose addiction is complicated by the
presence of incurable disease, serious accident or injury, or the infirmities attendant upon
age. .

"(b) Treatment of addicts or habitués in state licensed institutions where the
patient is kept under restraint and control, or in city or county jails or state prisons.

"(c) Treatment of addicts as provided for by Section 11217.5 of the Health and
Safety Code." |

_#F. Section 2242 of the Code states: ,

"(a) Prescribing, dispensing, or furnishing dangerous drugs as defined in Section

- 4022 without a good faith prior examination and medical indication therefor, constitutes

unprofessional conduct.

"(b) No licensee shall be found to have committed unprofessional conduct within
the meaning of this section if, at the time the drugs were prescribed, dispensed, or
furnished, any of the following applies: |

"q) The licensee was a designated physician and surgeon or podiatrist serving in .

the absence of the patient's physician and surgeon or podiatrist, as the case may be, and if

4 .



the drugs were prescribed, dispensed, or furnished only as necessary to maintain the
patient until the return of his or her practitioner, but in any case no longer than 72 hours.
"(2) The licensee transmitted the order for the drugs to a registered nurse or to a
licensed vocational nurse in an inpatient facility, and if both of the following conditions
exist:
"(A) The practitioner had consulted with such registered nurse or licensed
vocational nurse who had reviewed the patient's records.

"(B) The practitioner was designated as the practitioner to serve in the absence of

the patient's physician and surgeon or podiatrist, as the case may be.

"(3) The licensee was a designated practitioner serving in the absence of the
patient's physician and surgeon or podiatrist, as the case may be, and was in possession of
or had utilized the patient's records and ordered the renewal ofa medically indicated
prescription for an amount not exceeding the original prescription in strength or amount
or for more than one refilling. |

"(4) The licensee was acting in accordance with Section 120582 of the Health and
Safety Code."

G: | Section 2266 of the Code states:

"The failure of a physician and surgeon to maintain adequate and accurate
records relating to the provision of services to their patients constitutes
unprofessional conduct."

H. ‘Section 725 of the Code states:

“Repeated acts of clearly excessive prescribing or administering of drugs or
treatment, repeated acts of clearly excessive use of diagnostic procedures, or repeated acts
of clearly excessive use of diagnostic or treatment facilities as determined by the standard
of the community of licensees is unprofessional conduct for a physician and surgeon,
dentist, podiatrist, psychologist, physical therapist, chiropractor, ¢ or optometrist.
However, pursuant to Section 2241. 5, no physician and surgeon in n'compliancé with the

California Intractable Pain Treatment Act shall be subject to disciplinary action for


il

13.


23 -
24.

" 25

Ml

lawfully prescribing or administering controlled substances in the course of treatment of a

person for intractable pain."

I. Controiled Substances and Dangerous Drugs:

This Accusation is also made in reference to the following controlled substances
and dangerous drugs.

(1) "Actiq'is a Schedule II controlled substance within the meaning of the Health
and Safety Code of the State of California and a dangerous drug within the meaning of
Code section 4022. Actiq delivers fentanyl in a sublingual form (lollipop on a stick)
which is absorbed through the buccal mucosa. Actiq is very fast acting, but of short
duration, and can be highly addictive and subject to abuse.

(2) “Duragesic" (patch) is a brand name for Fentanyl and is a Schedule I

controlled substance within the meaning of the Health and Safety Code of the State of

California and a dangerous drug within the meaning of Code section 4022 .

(3) "Methadone" is a Schedule II controlled substances within the meaning of the
Health and Safety Code of the State of California and a dangerous drug within the
meaning of Code section 4022.

(4) "OxyContin" is a brand name for oxycodone hydrochloride, and a Schedule I
controlled substance within the meaning of the Health and Safety Code of the State of
California, and a dangerous drug within the meaning of Code section 4022.

(5) "Hydrocodone" is a Schedule If controlled substance within the meaning of

' the Health and Safety Code of the State of California and a dangerous drug within the

‘meaning of Code section 4022.

(6) "Oxycodone" is a Schedule II controlled substance within the meaning of the
Health and Safety Code of the State of California and a dangerous drug within the

meaning of Code section 4022.


28°

FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Gross Negligence)

Patient L.R.

4. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Code sections 2220,
2227 and 2234, as defined by 2234 (b) of the Code, in that she was grossly negligent in her care,
treatment and management of patient L.R. The circumstances are as-follows:

A. On or about January 18, 2002, patient L.R., a 42 year old female, was seen
by respondent for a complaint of pain in her right shoulder, neck and in her knees. At the
time, patient LR. was taking two forms of hydrocodone products, including Vicodin and
Norco, as well as two anti-inflammatory medications, Naprosyn and Ibuprofen. The
initial consultation report did not indicate the dose amount or the frequency of these
medications. The initial treatment plan included injection therapy of the right shoulder,
possible cervical epidural steriod injection after review of MRI and medical management
with Norco and Zanaflex. |

B. On or about January 24, 2002, respondent, for the first time, prescribed
patient L.R., a 30 day supply of 120 Actiq in 800 mcg dosage size. There is no medical
record entry regarding the prescription for Actiq, nor any documented medical indication
for prescribing Actiq.

Cc, Between January 24, 2002, and November 28, 2003, respondent prescribed -

Actiq for patient L.R. on 52 occasions, for a total of 13,150 doses, an average of 20.13
doses per day. The doses were in the amounts of 800 meg., 1200 mcg., and 1600 meg.
On some occasions within a few days of each prescription, respondent would prescribe
Actiq in differing strengths. For example, on April 16, 2003, respondent prescribed 300

 Actiq 1200 meg., another 300 Actig 800 mcg. on April 17, 2003, and another 300 Actiq
1600 mcg. on April 28, 2003... Each prescription was for a 30 day period. Respondent’s
medical records for patient L.R. set forth no explanation or medical indication for the

| various doses of Actiq, the amount prescribed, or the frequency of the prescriptions.

Mt

aN


15S

D. Between January 24, 2002, and November 28, 2003, respondent also
prescribed patient L.R. an additional 2060 doses of Duragesic, hydrocodone/APAP,
methodone, oxycodone/APAP and OxyContin for a combined total, with the Actiq, of
16,650 doses for a combined average of 25.49 doses per day. The medical records set
forth no explanation or medical indication for the dose amounts, the amounts prescribed
or the frequency of the various prescriptions. On many occasions these opioid
prescriptions were renewed without office visits by patient L.R. and with no
documentation of the prescription or of medical indication in the medical records to
justify the renewal of the prescriptions. In fact, between October 17, 2002, and March 31,
2003, respondent wrote no progress notes at all regarding any examinations, findings, or
medical indications or justification for the opioids prescribed during this period.

E. Between January 24, 2002, and November 28, 2003, respondent knew or
should have known that patient L.R. had become addicted to Actiq. Respondent,
nonetheless, continued to provide Actiq to patient L.R. without a medical indication and
contrary to the patient’s health, safety and welfare. On or about November 28, 2003,
respondent prescribed methadone 10 mg to patient L-R., without referring her to an
appropriate specialist in addiction medicine.

3. Respondent is guilty of gross negligence in her care, treatment and

management of patient L.R. by reason of, but not limited to, the following:

A. Respondent failed to document in her medical records for patient L.R. a
medical indication for the amount of opioids prescribed. Between on or about October
17, 2002, and March 31, 2003, respondent did not record in patient LR. 5s medical
records any findings, examination results, medical indications or justifications for the
opioids she continued to prescribe for patient L.R. |

B. The amount of opioids prescribed was clearly excessive and contrary to
patient L.R.’s health, safety and welfare.

C. . Respondent failed to properly monitor patient LR?s use of the opioids

prescribed, failed to document in the medical records for-patient L.R. the efficacy of the


il
- 19

24.



‘27

opioids and whether the patient was appropriately using the opioids, failed to provide any
explanation or medical indication as to why she rapidly increased the dose amounts and
quantity of opioids to patient L.R., and failed to provide an individualized treatment plan
for patient L.R. including overall treatment goals and long term treatment strategy.

D. In spite of the fact that respondent knew or should have known
patient L.R. was addicted to the opioids she was prescribing, respondent failed to refer
patient L.R. to an appropriate specialist in addiction medicine, and continued to prescribe

opioids to patient L.R.
SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Repeated Negligent Acts)
6. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2234 (c) of the Code, in that she was repeatedly
negligent in her care, treatment and management of patient L.R. as set forth in paragraphs 4 (A-
E) and 5 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.
THIRD CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Incompetence)
7. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2234 (d) of the Code, in that she was incompetent in
her care, treatment and management of patient L.R. as set forth in paragraphs 4 (A-E) and 5 (A-
D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.

FOURTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Violation of Drug Statute)
. 8. . Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2238, of the Code, in that she violated drug laws of
the State of California in her care, treatment and management of patient L.R. as set forth in
paragraphs 4 (A-E) and 5 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully

set forth.

ah







FIFTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Prescribing to an Addict)
9. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2241 of the Code, in that she prescribed to an addict
in her care, treatment and management of patient L.R. as set forth in paragraphs 4 (A-B) and 5
(A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.
SIXTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE © |

(Prescribing Without Good Faith Examination and Medical Indication)

10. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2242 of the Code, in that she prescribe dangerous
drugs and controlled substances to patient L.R. without a good faith prior examination and
medical indication as set forth in paragraphs 4 (A-D) and 5 (A-D) above which are incorporated

herein by reference as though fully set forth.
SEVENTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Failure to Maintain Adequate and Accurate Records)
11. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2266 of the Code, in that she failed to maintain
adequate and accurate records justifying her prescribing of opioids to patient L.R. as set forth in
paragraphs 4 (A-E) and 5 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully

set forth.
EIGHTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Excessive Prescribing)
12. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under, Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, .as defined by section 725 of the Code, in that she prescribed clearly
excessive amounts of controlled substances and dangerous drugs to patient L.R. as set forth in
paragraphs 4 (A-E) and 5 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully |
set forth. | |
Mt


ane

I nD Ww






27°


NINTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Gross Negligence)
Patient P.R.
13. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2234 (b) of the Code, in that she was grossly
negligent in her care, treatment and management of patient P.R. The circumstances are as
follows:

A. On or about September 20, 2001, respondent first saw patient P.R., a 40
year old male, with a history of chronic low back pain and bilateral lower extremity
radiculitis. Respondent recorded in the patient’s medical records her impression that he
suffered from a "Degenerative disc disease of the lower spine." Her plan was to refer him
for a surgical evaluation and to change his medication to OxyContin 20 mg., and use
Norco only for breakthrough pain. She also prescribed Celebrex one b.1.d. He was
instructed to return in 3 to 4 weeks following his surgical consult.

B. On or about December 3, 2001, respondent saw patient P.R. and recorded
in his medical chart that he had minimal improvement since the last visit. Respondent’s
plan was to continue medication management with Norco and Celebrex and reduce the
amount of OxyContin. Respondent also, for the first time, prescribed Actiq. Respondent
failed to document in the medical records any medical indication or justification for
prescribing Actiq. Respondent also failed to set forth in the medical records the dose
amount and the number of units prescribed.

Cc, Between January 28, 2002, and November 21, 2003, respondent prescribed
Actiq for P.R. on 34 occasions for a total of 9,390 doses for an average of 14.18 doses per
day. The doses were in the amounts of 800 mcg., 1200 meg., and 1600mcg. On some

occasions within a few days of each prescription, respondent would prescribe Actiq in _
differing strengths. For example, on June 25, 2003, respondent prescribed 300 Actiq
1600 mcg., and then prescribed another 300 Actiq 800 mcg. on June 29, 2003. Bach

prescription was for a 30 day period. The medical records for patient P.R. set forth no

11.


explanation or medical indication for the various doses of Actiq, the amount prescribed,

or the frequency of the prescriptions.

D, Between January 24, 2002, and November 21, 2003, respondent also
prescribed an additional 5549 doses of Duragesic, hydrocodone/APAP, methodone, and
OxyContin. In combination with the Actiq, there was a total of 14,939 doses for a
combined average of 22.56 doses per day. The medical records for P.R. set forth no
explanation or medical indication for the dose amounts, the amounts prescribed or the
frequency of the various prescriptions. On many occasions these opioid prescriptions
were renewed without office visits by P.R. Respondent also failed to document in the
medical records a justification or medical indication for the renewal of the prescriptions.
In fact, between October 17, 2002, and March 31, 2003, respondent wrote no progress
notes at all regarding any examinations, findings, explanations or medical indications for
the opioids prescribed during this period.

E. ° Between January 24, 2002, and November 21, 2003, respondent knew or
should have known that patient P.R. had become addicted to Actiq. Respondent,
nonetheless, continued to provide Actiq to patient P.R. without a medical indication and
contrary to the patient’s health, safety and welfare. On or about January 31, 2002,
October 23, 2003, and November 21, 2003, respondent prescribed Methadone to patient
P.R. Respondent did not refer patient P.R. to a specialist in addiction medicine.

14. - Respondent is guilty of gross negligence in her care, treatment and

management of patient P.R. by reason of, but not limited to, the following:

A.. Respondent failed to document in her medical records for patient P.R. a
medical indication for the amount of opioids prescribed. Between on or about October
17, 2002, and March.31, 2003, respondent did not record in patient P.R.’s medical
records any findings, examination results, medical indications or justifications for the
opioids she continued to prescribe to patient P.R

B. ~The amount of opisids prescribed was clearly excessive and contrary to

patient P.R.’s health, safety and welfare.


N WN


il

. 22


27.


Cc. Respondent failed to properly monitor P.R.’s use of the opioids
prescribed, failed to document in the medical records for P.R. the efficacy of the opioids,
whether the patient was appropriately using the opioids, failed to provide any explanation
or medical indication as to why she rapidly increased the dose amounts and quantity of
opioids to P.R. and failed to provide an individualized treatment plan for P.R. including
treatment goals and long term treatment strategy.

D. In spite of the fact that respondent knew or should have known
P.R. was addicted to the opioids she was prescribing, respondent failed to refer P.R. to an
appropriate specialist in addiction medicine and continued to prescribe opioids to P.R.

TENTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Repeated Negligent Acts)
15. | Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2234 (c) of the Code, in that she was repeatedly
negligent in her care, treatment and management of patient P.R as set forth in paragraphs13 (A-
E) and 14 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.
ELEVENTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Incompetence)
16. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section. 2234 (d) of the Code, in that she was incompetent in
her care, treatment and management of patient P.R. as set forth in paragraphs 13(A-E) and 14 (A-
D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.

TWELFTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Violation of Drug Statute)
17. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2238 of the Code, in that she violated drug laws of
the State of California in her care, treatment and management of patient P.R. as set forth in
paragraphs 13 (A-E) and 14 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though
fully set forth. OO .





28 -

THIRTEENTH CAUSE OF ACTION

(Prescribing to an Addict)
18. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2241 of the Code, in that she prescribed to an addict
in her care, treatment and management of patient P.R. as set forth in paragraphs 13 (A-E) and 14
(A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.

FOURTEENTH CAUSE OF ACTION

(Prescribing Without a Good Faith Examination and Medical Indication)
19. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2242 of the Code, in that she prescribed dangerous
drugs and controlled substances to patient P.R. without a good faith examination and a medical
indication as set forth in paragraphs 13 (A-E) and 14 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein

by reference as though fully set forth.
FIFTEENTH CAUSE OF ACTION

(Failure to Maintain Adequate and Accurate Records)
20. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections
2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 2266 of the Code, in that she failed to maintain
adequate and accurate records justifying her prescribing of opioids to patient P.R. as set forth in

paragraphs 13 (A-E) and 14 (A-D) above which.are incorporated herein by reference as though

fully set forth.

SIXTEENTH CAUSE OF ACTION
(Excessive Prescribing)

21. Respondent is subject to further disciplinary action under Code sections

|| 2220, 2227 and 2234, as defined by section 725 of the Code, in that she prescribed clearly

excessive amounts of controlled substances and dangerous drugs to patient P.R. as set forth in

paragraphs. 13 (AEDs and 14 (A-D) above which are incorporated herein by reference as s though
fully set forth. ,


il


PRAYER

WHEREF ORE, Complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein
alleged, and that following the hearing, the Division of Medical Quality issue a decision:

1. Revoking or suspending Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate Number
A 63753, issued to Maryanne Phillips, M.D.

2.  Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Maryanne Phillips, M.D.'s,
authority to supervise physician's assistants, pursuant to section 3527 of the Code;

3. If placed on probation, ordering Maryanne Phillips, M.D., to pay the
Division of Medical Quality the costs of probation monitoring;

4. Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and proper.

DATED: August 21, 2006

1s |
DAVID T. THORNTON
Executive Director
Medical Board of Califorma
Department of Consumer Affairs
State of California
Complainant

$D2006700588

80083 182.wpd


