OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


Xo


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR KSE

In The Matter of Charges and
Case No. 09-11344-1

Complaint Against

SEAN PHONG-QUOC SU, M.D., FILED

SEP 18 2009

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Respondent.

a _ 4.444444

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A., and Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., by
and through Edward Cousineau, General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Sean Phong-Quoc Su, M.D., (Respondent), has
violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the
Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent was licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada on July 1, 1999, by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, and at all times addressed herein was
so licensed.

Patient A

2. Patient A was a twenty-nine-year-old female at the time of the events at issue.
Her true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On April 16, 2009, Patient A underwent a breast augmentation procedure in
Respondent’s office at the Skin Body Institute which is located in Las Vegas. Patient A had won

the breast augmentation procedure after hearing about a “Makeover Wish” program whereby it is

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



understood that Respondent’s professional fees were to be waived in exchange for a positive
testimonial from Patient A.

4. Respondent did not perform Patient A’s breast augmentation procedure safely or
competently. Of import, the procedure took over eight hours to perform and it was performed
under local anesthetic. Medical records indicate that the patient suffered significant and on-going
pain and anxiety throughout the procedure. Moreover, Respondent used improper and excessive
suture materials, both of which increased the potential for infection and dehiscence in Patient A...
and as noted earlier, the procedure was performed in Respondent’s medical office, which is an
unlicensed surgical facility.

5. Respondent documented concerns with the healing of Patient A’s right breast
within the first post-operative week. Over the next several weeks, Respondent attempted various
remedial measures including placing Patient A on a new antibiotic regimen and replacing some
sutures when Respondent noted a pending implant extrusion. By June 2, 2009, Patient A’s right
side implant had extruded and on June 3, 2009, Patient A returned to the Skin Body Institute to
have Respondent repair the breast augmentation procedure earlier performed by him.
Respondent performed a repair surgery, again in his office at the Skin Body Institute and again
under local anesthesia. The repair surgery was performed only on Patient A’s right breast and
yet again took over eight hours to perform and with local anesthetic which waned in
effectiveness, resulting again in Patient A suffering considerable anxiety and pain throughout the
procedure. Moreover, during this procedure Respondent reused the original implant after
irrigating the infected breast pocket and implant with antibiotic solution.

6. On June 15, 2009, Patient A presented to Sunrise Hospital complaining of

‘symptoms consistent with infection in her right breast. Specifically, Patient A complained of

fever, pain, and puffiness in her breasts. The implant in Patient A’s right breast was again visible
and may have begun extruding through the incision at the inframammery fold. Patient A was
immediately admitted to Sunrise Hospital. On June 16, 2009, two physicians performed bilateral
implant removal surgery, as well as irrigation, debridement and wound closure of the patient’s

right breast. The surgery was performed under general anesthesia. In the course of the surgery,


a

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

NN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

N
oo

the physicians noted that the incisions performed by Respondent were over three times longer
than appropriate for this type of surgical procedure. At the time of surgery, the incision on the
right breast was open for several centimeters and a portion of the implant was visibly extruding
out of the opening in the incision. After the nght breast implant was removed, the physicians
discovered an inexplicable mass of sutures in tissue along Patient A’s chest wall. The physicians
removed the inexplicable sutures from Patient A’s right breast, removed the implant from Patient
A’s left breast, and thoroughly cleaned the tissues of both breasts to remove any source of future
infection in Patient A’s breasts.
Patient B

7. Patient B was a sixty-four-year-old female at the time of the events at issue. Her
true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

8. On January 6, 2009, Respondent performed a cosmetic procedure intended to
tighten Patient B’s lax skin and cosmetically enhance her lower eyelids and immediate area
around the eyes, in his office at the Skin Body Institute under local anesthetic. Respondent
performed the procedure using a Smartlipo laser liposuction technique.

9. Patient B was not an appropriate candidate for a laser skin tightening procedure
given the degree of excess skin surrounding Patient B’s eyes. Further, Respondent did not
perform the eyelid enhancement procedure correctly. In particular, it appears that Respondent’s
technique resulted in overexposure of the effected tissues due to the intense laser light generated
by the Smartlipo laser. The application of 450 joules per eye/cheek was excessive and resulted in
permanent damage to the tissues and permanent redness and discoloration around both of Patient
B’s eyes. And, as noted earlier, the procedure was performed in Respondent’s medical office,
which is an unlicensed surgical facility.

Patient C

10. Patient C was a twenty-five-year-old female at the time of the events at issue. Her

true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient

Designation served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

RR W

oO CO TN


11. On November 28, 2008, Patient C underwent a breast augmentation procedure in
Respondent’s office at the Skin Body Institute which is located in Las Vegas. Evidence in
possession of the Board indicates that this is the first breast augmentation procedure Respondent
had ever performed independently.

12. Respondent did not perform Patient C’s breast augmentation procedure safely or
competently. The procedure took over eight hours to perform and it was performed under local
anesthetic. Medical records indicate that the patient suffered general anxiety throughout the
procedure and that the procedure was performed in Respondent’s medical office, which is an
unlicensed surgical facility.

13. Thereafter, Patient C developed complications from the augmentation procedure
approximately three weeks postoperatively, complications which included extrusion of the left
implant, delayed wound healing, and infection. In response, Respondent removed and replaced
the surgical sutures on Patient C’s left breast. Patient C did eventually recover from the
aforementioned extrusion and infection after months of treatment by Respondent, but she later
suffered from breast encapsulation, which most likely resulted from the chronic inflammation
and scar tissue resulting from the initial surgical procedure.

Recordkeeping and Related Deceptive Conduct

14. Upon receipt of the complaints regarding Patients A and B, Board Staff
commenced an investigation into the allegations related to Respondent’s treatment of Patients A
and B at the Skin Body Institute.

15. In furtherance of the investigation, Board Staff attempted to obtain documents and
evidence at the Skin Body Institute that was uniquely and solely within the control of
Respondent. In particular, on June 30, 2009, Investigator Monica Gustafson presented
Respondent with a subpoena for the entire healthcare records for all patients on whom he had
performed breast augmentation surgery. Respondent advised Investigator Gustafson that the
request was too much for him to provide at that time. Investigator Gustafson then served
Respondent with a subpoena for just a list of all patients on whom he had performed breast

augmentation surgery. After hours of waiting, Respondent’s staff provided Investigator


a

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

NN N

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

NO
Oo

Gustafson with a list of three patients, one of whom was Patient C. Notably this list did not
include Patient A, on whom Respondent had also performed breast augmentation surgery.

16. On July 1, 2009, Investigator Gustafson and Investigator Shawna Rice presented
Respondent with a subpoena for the entire healthcare record for all patients upon whom he had
performed breast augmentation surgery. At that time, Respondent provided the records for the
three patients included on the list provided by Respondent’s staff on June 30, 2009. Respondent
again omitted the medical record for Patient A. On July 1, 2009, Investigator Gustafson and
Investigator Rice served Respondent with an additional subpoena for the entire healthcare record
for Patient-A. Respondent then directed his staff member to provide the chart to Investigator
Rice, and Respondent immediately left the building and was observed leaving out the back door
by Investigator Gustafson. This disobliging conduct resulted in Respondent’s staff only being
able to locate the chart for Patient C, as they were unable to locate the chart for Patient A on this
date.

17. On July 2, 2009 Investigator Rice returned to Respondent’s office and was
immediately provided the medical record for Patient A. Due to the difficulty encountered in this
case in obtaining medical records from Respondent on this case and previous cases prior to
service of the subpoena for medical records for patient B, Chief of Investigations Douglas
Cooper called Respondent on July 15, 2009 and advised him that Investigator Don Andreas and
Investigator Trent Hiett would be serving a subpoena for the records for Patient B that same day
and encouraged his cooperation. Upon arrival at Respondent’s office on July 15, 2009, the chart
for Patient B was provided by Respondent’s staff upon presentation of the subpoena by
Investigator Andreas and Investigator Hiett. |

18. Upon review of the documents finally obtained from Respondent and in view of
the circumstances surrounding the production of the documents, including but not limited to the
circumstances regarding the absence and then sudden appearance of the chart for Patient A, it
appears that some of the records and evidence produced by Respondent may not be authentic,
original, accurate, and contemporaneously made with the incidents at issue.

\} ///

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



Unethical Behavior Related to Patient A

19. Respondent solicited patients for breast augmentations through a contest that
Respondent openly advertised. Respondent invited patients to submit written statements
describing why they wanted breast augmentation and how receiving a free breast augmentation
procedure would have positively affected their lives. Respondent called this contest his
“Makeover Wish” program.

20. Patient A submitted information to Respondent in response to his “Makeover
Wish” contest. Pertinent to this matter, in her submittal to Respondent, Patient A described how
she suffered from low self-esteem related to difficult marital and personal relationships, and that
she believed that she would never be able to afford breast augmentation with her restricted means
and circumstances. Based upon this information, Respondent informed Patient A that she had
won his contest and that he would provide her with a free breast augmentation procedure.

21. According to Respondent’s chart regarding Patient A, on April 8, 2009, he elicited
from Patient A an extensive personal history involving being the victim of spousal abuse,
infidelity by her husband, her personal depression and anxiety, attempted suicide by a daughter,
and various physical complaints. Respondent also documented that Patient A was working while
going to cosmetology school and was also the mother of two children. Based upon the interview,
Respondent ordered for Patient A an EKG, a PAP smear, ultrasound of her abdomen, a Doppler
duplex scan of her carotid artery, and an echocardiogram. Respondent’s chart also indicated that
as part of the treatment plan he would consider prescribing an SSRI for Patient A for her
depression and anxiety.

22. As part of his pre-operative examination of Patient A, Respondent took
photographs of Patient A’s breasts. The photographs show that Patient A had glandular and
nipple ptosis, more on the left breast than the right. The ptosis and shape of Patient A’s breasts
indicated that she was not a good candidate for breast augmentation alone and that a satisfactory
result would also have required a breast lift to obtain elevation of the lower pole of the breast.
There is no indication in Respondent’s charts that he ever discussed these issues with Patient A.

/it

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559





23. Respondent’s chart regarding Patient A shows that he required Patient A to sign
various documents related to her free breast augmentation procedure. One of these documents
informed Patient A that she would provide testimonials on Respondent’s behalf after the
procedures were performed. Another of the documents Respondent provided to Patient A
explained post-operative instructions that informed Patient A not to resume any exercise other
than walking for the first seven days post-operation and that for one to four weeks post-operation
she was to refrain fro weight-bearing exercise, twisting or lifting anything over her head, or any
exercise that might cause a lot of bounce. Another of the documents informed Patient A that if
she complained about the services that Respondent was providing, she would be required to pay
him for the full costs of the services rendered.

24. | Respondent scheduled Patient A for in-office breast augmentation surgery to
occur on April 16, 2009 that would be performed at his office at the Skin Body Institute under
only local anesthetic. Respondent’s chart indicates that on April 15, 2009, Patient A had
indicated to him that she was anxious about the results from the tests he had ordered and that she
was worried about her family and job.

25. As is amply shown in Respondent’s chart regarding Patient A, she was not a good
candidate for an in-office breast augmentation surgery. The glandular and nipple ptosis and
shape of Patient A’s breasts indicated that Patient A would not have a satisfactory result from
breast augmentation alone. Patient A indicated numerous times her anxiety, depression, and
emotionally difficult personal situation. Patient A indicated that her job situation and family
situation were such that she could not afford time away from work and her schooling and that,
since she was caring for her children with little support, he would know that she would be
expected to engage almost immediately in physical activities that Respondent was instructing
Patient A to avoid.

26. Respondent’s breast augmentation surgery on Patient A demonstrates that he
violated Patient A’s trust and exploited his relationship with her for his financial or other
personal gain. The medical records make clear that Patient A would not receive a satisfactory

result from augmentation surgery, but Respondent did not speak with Patient A about additional

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



surgery, presumably because such additional surgery was beyond his capabilities and the terms of
his “Makeover Wish” contest. Patient A was emotionally fragile, and most especially, prone to
anxiety so much so that Respondent was recommending that Patient A begin SSRI therapy, and
yet later Respondent would blame the extremely prolonged surgery times in his surgical notes on
Patient A’s anxiety about which he had always known. Respondent only wanted to use Patient A
as an exemplar of his “generosity” through his “Makeover Wish” contest, and then to exploit his
“generosity” by turning Patient A into a testimonial shill for his services.
COUNT I

27. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

28. The facts and circumstances indicate that Respondent’s care and treatment of
Patient A constitutes malpractice. Section 630.301(4) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides
that malpractice, defined as the failure to use the reasonable knowledge, skill and expertise
ordinarily used in similar circumstances, is grounds for discipline.

29. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent committed malpractice in the course of
providing care and treatment to Patient A and is subject to discipline as provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IT

30. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

31. The facts and circumstances indicate that Respondent’s care and treatment of
Patient B constitutes malpractice. Section 630.301(4) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides
that malpractice, defined as the failure to use the reasonable knowledge, skill and expertise
ordinarily used in similar circumstances, is grounds for discipline.

32. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent committed malpractice in the course of
providing care and treatment to Patient B and is subject to discipline as provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT I |
33, All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth

herein.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

N



The facts and circumstances indicate that Respondent’s care and treatment of
Patient C constitutes malpractice. Section 630.301(4) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides
that malpractice, defined as the failure to use the reasonable knowledge, skill and expertise
ordinarily used in similar circumstances, is grounds for discipline.

34. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent committed malpractice in the course of
providing care and treatment to Patient C and is subject to discipline as provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IV

35. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

36. The facts and circumstances regarding the records produced by Respondent as
part of the investigation of this matter show either that Respondent did not maintain timely,
legible, accurate, and complete medical records or, worse yet, that he had actually altered
medical records of his patients. The failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate, and complete
medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment, and care of a patient constitutes grounds for
initiating disciplinary action pursuant to NRS 630.3062(1). The altering of the medical records
of a patient constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action pursuant to NRS 630.3062(2).

37. | By reason of the foregoing, Respondent failed to maintain timely, legible,
accurate, and complete medical records and altered of the medical records of Patients A and B
and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

COUNT V

38. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

39. The facts and circumstances regarding how, when, and what records Respondent
provided in response to the various subpoenas served by Board Staff as part of the investigation
in this matter demonstrate that Respondent had engaged in conduct intended to deceive Board
Staff. In particular, Respondent’s representations that the three files regarding breast
augmentations were all that he had was untrue, should have been known to him to be untrue at

the time he made the representations, and was proven to be untrue only after the persistence of

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

an
xS
ma D
@ oO iP
Bass
oo
a $ 00
Gov
Zin
EA«&
wget
ino
om


Oo NN OHNO AW BP Ww NO FH ODO Oo OOON DN ON Re UU ULE lLlUWD

Board Staff forced Respondent to produce the fourth chart. The facts and circumstances
surrounding the production and content of the fourth chart, Patient A’s chart, indicate that some
of the contents of the chart may not be true, accurate, and correct. The engaging in any conduct
which is intended to deceive constitutes a ground for initiating disciplinary action pursuant to
NRS 630.306(2)(a).

40. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent has engaged in conduct which is intended |
to deceive and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

COUNT VI

Al. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

42. The facts and circumstances indicate that Respondent put these personal interests
of his ahead of the interests in providing optimal patient counsel and care to Patient A. In so
doing, he violated Patient A’s trust in him and exploited his relationship with Patient A for his
financial and other personal gain. The engaging in conduct that violates the trust of a patient and
exploits the relationship between the physician and the patient for financial or other personal gain
constitutes a ground for initiating disciplinary action pursuant to NRS 630.301(7).

43. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent has engaged in conduct that violates the
trust of a patient and exploits the relationship between the physician and the patient for financial
or other personal gain and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

COUNT VU

44, All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein. —

45. The facts and circumstances also indicate that Respondent failed to offer
appropriate procedures or studies to Patient A regarding the glandular ptosis and shape of her
breasts before performing the breast augmentation because his doing so would have negatively
affected his financial well-being either by his having to pay for her to have the breast lift that her
condition indicated was needed or by losing the benefit of her testimonial for which he was

Hl

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

RR WH Wb



willing to pay at the cost of a free breast augmentation surgery, and, thus, violated
NRS 630.301(8).

46. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent failed to offer appropriate procedures or
studies and failed to refer Patient A to appropriate providers with the intent of positively
influencing his financial well-being and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352,

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a formal
hearing;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against
him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it deems appropriate to impose for the
violation committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 18" day of September, 2009.

Edward Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 18" day of September 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION, Fingerprint Information, by mailing via USPS certified return receipt mail to

the following:

Kristopher Rath, Esq.
HUTCHISON & STEFFEN
10080 West Alta Dr. Ste. 200
Las Vegas, NV 89145

Dated this 18" day of September 2009.

Khu LD oho

Angie Donohoe
Legal Assistant

