


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
) .
In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 09-12595-1
Complaint Against ) FILE D
PRAKASH CHAUDHARI, M.D., ) AUG 1 1 2008
OARD OF
Respondent. NEA EXAMINERS
_)

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of Charles N. Held, M.D, Chairman,
Benjamin Rodriguez, M.D, member, and Jean Stoess, M.A., member, by and through counsel
Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Prakash Chaudhari, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel Shirley
Blazich, Esq. and Jacob Hafter, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on March 23, 2009, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above referenced matter
charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical
Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: one count malpractice, a violation of
NRS 630.301(4); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands it, and
has consulted with competent counsel Shirley Blazich, Esq. and Jacob Hafter, Esq., concerning the nature
and significance of the Complaint and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to
the complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that
he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act and after due
consideration and consultation with his counsel, concedes that the Board has evidence to proceed with the
allegations set forth in count I of the Complaint against him although Respondent submits that he was
found not to be liable for medical malpractice and negligence after a jury trial in a civil matter regarding

the same patient and same facts giving rise to this matter;



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall advocate approval of this
Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to
approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that if the
Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s
Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the Investigative
Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without incurring further time and expense necessary to defend the
complaint, Respondent, although not conceding to or admitting to the allegations as set forth in Count I of
the Complaint, does not wish to contest the same and agrees that the Board has sufficient evidence to
proceed with its Complaint that Respondent engaged in conduct that is ground for discipline pursuant to
the Medical Practice Act to wit; one count of malpractice, a violation of NRS 630.301(4), which evidence
Respondent disputes and denies, and which, but for his desire to reach a compromise of this matter, he
would contest at formal hearing. Therefore, as a condition of this compromise, Respondent agrees that the
Board may enter an order that the Board has sufficient evidence to proceed with its Complaint that
Respondent violated NRS 630.301(4), and ordering that Respondent pay a fine of $1000 to be paid
within ninety (90) days of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board and that
he shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of this case, the current amount being $2,480.64 to be paid within ninety (90) days of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board;




2. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with counsel prior to entering
into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of above identified
counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of
the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may
apply to him in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said
Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the
matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the
right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall:
have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States
Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may
be available to his or that may apply to his in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees

that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent may have
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. National Practitioner Data Bank Reporting. The Board hereby acknowledges and

agrees that notwithstanding the investigation of the Respondent nor the approval and execution of this
Agreement, the Board has no obligation under any law or regulation, including, without limitation, the
Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1996, 42 U.S.C. § 11101, et. seq., or 45 C.F.R. §60.1, et. seq., to
make any report regarding the Respondent to the National Practitioner Data Bank. Moreover, provided
that the Board approves the recommendation of the Investigative Committee for acceptance of this

Agreement and the Agreement is subsequently effectuated, the Board hereby covenants and agrees that



neither it, nor any of its agents, employees or affiliates, will file any report to the National Practitioner
Data Bank regarding the Respondent related to the Complaint or the investigation underlying this

Agreement

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this Agreement

will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the Investigative Committee for
acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the Investigative Committee shall recommend
approval of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the Board in resolution of the
disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of
seeking Board approval of this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate
directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it
were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be
made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and
communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint
and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the Complaint, and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent. The
Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that Respondent and his counsel may appear at the Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be
addressed to the Investigative Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves the

terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee will
cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver and Consent
Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed, subject
to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement, in its entirety, shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement

regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,



notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption
of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from
considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role,
including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself,

his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or
claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by
reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection
with the complaint. The Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full
settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with
the Board.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and

enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

[il



13.‘ Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving this

Agreement, upon receipt of credible information that Respondent has materially failed to comply with

any term or condition of this Order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s

license until Respondent complies with the term or condition. Failure to comply with the terms recited

herein may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of

an Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Furthermore, any failure to pay any

fine, fee, or cost ordered herein will also result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to

collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

oe
Dated this G day Sula i of 2009.

KALE

Lyf. Beggs, Esq. C 3 6
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

OS Oa
Prakash Chaudhari, M.D. Respondent

tt, ~
Dated this 16 day of July

, 2009.

We ;
Dated this (0~ day of juhy

Shirley BkiZich, Esq,
Attorney for Respondent

b Hafter, Esq.

Jacob
Attorndy for Respondent

, 2009.



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is approved
and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of August 2009, with the
final total amount of costs due of $2,529.7

¢ Wat

RENEE WEST, Secretary-Treasurer
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

