OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and )
) Case No. 09-12260-1
Complaint Against )
LANING ANDREWS, M.D., ) FILED
Respondent. ) DEC 82 2009
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
at the time of approval of the filing of the instant complaint, of Charles N. Held, M.D.,
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D. and Jean Stoess, having a reasonable basis to believe that
Laning Andrews, M.D., hereinafter referred to as Dr. Andrews, has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's
charges and allegations, as follows:

1, Dr. Andrews is currently licensed in active status, and was so licensed by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, on August 24, 1998 (License No. 8768), pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, and at all times addressed herein
was so licensed.

2. Patient A was a forty-five year old female at the time of the incidents in question.
Her true identify is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her identity is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Dr. Andrews along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. Patient A’s medical history included hypothyroidism, hypertension, refractory
migraines and strokes secondary to antiphospholipid antibody. She took Lovenox on a regular
basis for anticoagulation.

4. Patient A presented to her primary care physician at MEDSchool Associates North

on December 9, 2002 with complaints of the worst headache of her life. She reported falling a

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



week prior and hitting the right side of her head. Her primary care physician was concerned about
possible subarachnoid hemorrhage and contacted the emergency room physician at Saint Mary’s
Hospital about possibly performing a workup on Patient A that would include a CT scan and
possible lumbar puncture.

5. Patient A was sent to the emergency room at St. Mary’s Hospital where she was
seen by Dr. Andrews. He performed an examination of Patient A and she underwent a CT scan
which was reported as unremarkable.

6. Subsequent to the unremarkable CT scan, Dr. Andrews performed a lumbar
puncture on Patient A, the results of which demonstrated only 2 red blood cells in the CSF.
Patient A was subsequently discharged with the impression of acute viral meningitis and was
directed to follow up with her primary care physician.

7. The medical records for Patient A do not indicate that Patient A’s use of Lovenox
was considered in the decision to perform a lumbar puncture nor do they indicate that any
alternatives to a lumbar puncture were considered for Patient A. Furthermore, the medical records
do not indicate that Dr. Andrews discussed with Patient A the risks and benefits associated with
the lumbar puncture.

8. Patient A was transported by REMSA to the emergency room at Saint Mary’s
Hospital approximately seven hours after being discharged, with complaints of neck and back
pain. She left the hospital against medical advice approximately one hour later, stating she felt
better.

9. Patient A returned to MEDSchool Associates North on December 10, 2002 for
follow up where she was noted as having viral meningitis as well as back pain and headaches.

10. Patient A again returned on December 11, 2002 to MEDSchool Associates where
she reported the onset of severe lower back pain the night before as well as numbness which
radiated down her left leg and occasionally her right leg. She was referred to Washoe Medical
Center (currently Renown) for treatment of viral meningitis and evaluation of a potential lumbar
epidural hemorrhage.

Mf

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



11. Patient A was seen at Washoe Medical Center where she was diagnosed with an
extensive epidural hematoma.

12. Patient B was a thirteen-year old male at the time of the incidents in question. His
true identify is not disclosed to protect his privacy, but his identity is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Dr. Andrews along with a copy of this Complaint.

13. Patient B presented to the emergency room at Saint Mary’s on August 8, 2003 with
complaints of a severe headache that he had been experiencing for the previous three weeks.

14. Patient B and his mother reported that he had been seen in the emergency room of
Washoe Medical Center three times during that time period and that during his first visit he had
undergone a CT scan which was apparently normal and was sent home. They reported that during
the second visit, Patient B was diagnosed with sinusitis and given antibiotics and during the third
visit he was diagnosed with migraines and given Vicodin.

15. At Saint Mary’s, Patient B reported his pain was increasing and the location had
moved from the frontal to temporal surfaces. He also reported nausea.

16. Patient B was initially seen by a physician assistant whose examination of Patient B
indicated no remarkable or abnormal findings. Her examination noted no sinus tenderness and no
meningeal signs.

17. Dr. Andrews did see Patient B and he concurred with the impression of the
physician assistant of acute cephalgia. Patient B was prescribed a new pain medication and was
directed to follow up with a neurologist. Patient B’s mother was provided with a list of
neurologists. No further workup of Patient B was conducted.

18. On August 13, 2003, Patient B was transported to Washoe Medical Center after
being found unconscious by his mother at home. He arrived at Washoe Medical Center lethargic
with right-sided hemiparesis. He was ultimately diagnosed with basilar meningitis with
intraparenchymal abscesses and hydrecephalus. Sphenoid sinusitis was also found and was
believed to have been the underlying cause of the basilar meningitis. Patient B underwent a

lengthy hospital course for treatment.

Hl

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



Count I

19. | Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of
a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances.

20. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

21. Dr. Andrews failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances when he performed a lumbar puncture on Patient A without
investigating alternatives to the lumbar puncture or taking any precautions to account for the fact
that Patient A was on Lovenox and accordingly Dr. Andrews is subject to discipline by the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count I

22. Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of
a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances.

23. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

24. Dr. Andrews failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances when he failed to consider complications associated with sinusitis and
perform further workup on Patient B knowing that Patient B had been seen three previous times
with the same complaints, had received treatment and had not improved and accordingly
Dr. Andrews is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as provided
in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a
formal hearing;

Hl

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Dr. Andrews notice of the
charges herein against him, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions
against him;

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose for the violation or violations committed by Dr. Andrews; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Dr. Andrews its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

n
DATED this 7 day of December, 2009.

TH VADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
y GET ae
Lyn E. Beggs, Egg. \N

General Counsel ard Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(773) 688-2559

N



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 2"! day of December 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION, Original SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT along
with FINGERPRINT INFORMATION, by mailing USPS certified mail to the following:

Laning Andrews, M.D.
P.O. Box 21418
Reno, NV 89515-1418

Dated this 2"¢ day of December 2009.

Lit: Lun ube

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

