Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


ou am FB Sd & F&F Ce r_oaeakwswnrue



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In The Matter of an Investigation ) Case No. 09-11127-1
Regardi )
“ FILED
YUN SZU YEH, M.D.,
. OCT 06 2009
Respondent. ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
J _ -MEDICAL EXAMINERS

CONSENT AGREEMENT FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE TO
PRACTICE MEDICINE IN THE STATE OF NEVADA

This Consent Agreement is hereby entered into by and between the Nevada State Board

of Medical Examiners (the “Board”), composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Benjamin J.
Rodriguez, M.D., Ms Renee West, Javaid Anwar, M.D., Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A., 8. Daniel
McBride, M.D., Mr. Van V. Heffner, and Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., by and through General |
Counsel, Edward O. Cousineau, and Yun Szu Yeh, M.D. (Respondent), through his counsel of
record, Kathleen Janssen, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, the Board initiated an investigation related to Respondent’s professional
conduct in the state of Nevada after learning that on July 13, 2009, the State of Arizona charged
Respondent on 14 felony counts for allegedly writing illegal drug prescriptions for patients at a
clinic he operated in Mohave County, Arizona. The 14 felony counts against Respondent include
conspiracy, assisting a criminal syndicate, money laundering and administering narcotic drugs.
Respondent has pled not guilty and his criminal case is pending; and

WHEREAS, on July 21, 2009, Respondent voluntarily surrendered his controlled

substance prescribing privileges in the states of Arizona and Nevada; and

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



WHEREAS, the allegations against Respondent charged in the Arizona Criminal
Complaint, if true, would constitute violations of Nevada law. Further, Respondent admits that
the acts described above, if accepted by the finder of fact, would establish grounds for discipline
pursuant to NRS Chapter 630; and

WHEREAS, Respondent acknowledges that he has read and understands this Consent
Agreement and has stipulated to its contents. In addition, Respondent acknowledges that he is
represented by counsel herein, whom Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent,
and fully advised in these circumstances and Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters
into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with counsel; and

WHEREAS, in execution of this Consent Agreement, the Respondent, for himself, his
executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have,
against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of

this Consent Agreement or its administration; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Consent Agreement shall be
given consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled, and that Board counsel
shall advocate for its acceptance, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Consent Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions

enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him; and

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



WHEREAS, if the Board does not adopt this Consent Agreement, Respondent will not assert as
a defense that the Board's consideration of this Consent Agreement constitutes bias, prejudice,
prejudgment or other similar defense; and

WHEREAS, this Consent Agreement, once approved and signed, is a matter of public
record that will be publicly disseminated as a formal action of the Board and will be reported to
the National Practitioner Data Bank and on the Board's website; and

WHEREAS, if any part of the Consent Agreement is later declared void or otherwise
unenforceable, the remainder of the Consent Agreement in its entirety shall remain in force and
effect.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above captioned matter, Respondent and the
Board hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the above-captioned
matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act

(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Admissions. All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition
of this matter and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving
the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by Respondent are not intended or made
for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency

proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Consent Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with
the advice of above identified counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United
States Constitution (except the privilege against self-incrimination and the attorney-client privilege),

the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be



available to him or that may apply to him, and Respondent further agrees that the matter may be
settled and resolved in accordance with this Consent Agreement without a hearing or atty further
proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Consent Agreement is not
approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 2338 that may be available to him or that may apply to .
him in connection with a subsequent proceeding by the Board.

4. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to negate the costs and expenses related to a
protracted investigation and potential prosecution related to the aforementioned criminal filing in
the state of Arizona, Respondent hereby agrees and does not contest that an order may be entered
herein by the Board finding that Respondent’s license to ptactice medicine in the state of Nevada
shall be permanently revoked, that Respondent shall be prohibited from ever reapplying for medical
licensure in the state of Nevada, and that Respondent agrees to pay $2,000.00 in investigative fees
and costs, payable to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within sixty (60) days of

acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board.

woo 2009 / WY
VW,

Edward ©. Cousineau KaihiderJansgen, Esq.
Attorney for the Attomdy for Réspondent

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1, Yun Szu Yeb, M_D., hereby agree to the foregoing Consent Agreement in relation to

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners Case No, 09-11127-1,

Dated this /@ day of September, 2009.
ee Yeh, YA Respondent

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



IT IS SO ORDERED that the above consent agreement for revocation of license to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada be accepted in regards to Yun Szu Yeh, M.D., Case #09-11127-1
Done in open session this 6" day of October, 2009.

Charles N. Held, President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

