OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and
(ase No. 09-32802-1

Complaint Against rien Peiuay Y 30 4
(nw
ELY ZASLOW, M.D., CLERK OF THE BOARD
Respondent.


COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, and Benjamin J.
Rodriguez, M.D., Member, at the time of the authorization of filing this formal complaint, by and
through Edward O. Cousineau, counsel for the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis
to believe that Ely Zaslow, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the
provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative
Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent was issued a license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
August 31, 2007, and at all times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of North Carolina on
December 2, 1986.

3. In May of 2008, the North Carolina Medical Board filed a three-count Notice of
Charges and Allegations against Respondent alleging that Respondent engaged in various forms
of unprofessional conduct. See Exhibit 1.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

aN



4. In July of 2008, in lieu of formal disciplinary proceedings, Respondent entered
into a Consent Order with the North Carolina Medical Board which resulted in the suspension of
Respondent’s medical license, the suspension was stayed with Respondent being required to
complete a continuing medical education course on prescription writing, to only prescribe
medications for patients in accordance with the North Carolina Medical Board’s protocols, to not
split fees with a business corporation, and to obey all other laws and regulations related to the
practice of medicine.

5. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary
action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the
license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary
action.

6. The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of North Carolina, constitute violations of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

7. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3, That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and
/i/

Hl
Hl
Hi

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301



4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

ithe
DATED this “day of February, 2009.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

» Cth be

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this & ay of February, 2009.

Charles N. Held, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 4'" day of February 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT & original
SETTLEMENT, WAIVER & CONSENT AGREEMENT, by mailing via USPS certified return

receipt to the following:
Ely Zaslow, M.D.
128 Hawk Ridge
Asheville, NC 28804

Dated this 4°" day of February 2009.

‘Angelia Donohoe

Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT

BEFORE THE
NORTH CAROLINA MEDICAL BOARD

In re:

Ely D. Zaslow, M.D. NOTICE OF CHARGES AND

ALLLEGATIONS; NOTICE OF

Respondent. HEARING

The North Carolina Medical Board (hereinafter Board) has
preferred and does hereby prefer the following charges and
allegations:

1. The Board is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Article 1 of Chapter 90 of the
North Carolina General Statutes.

2. Dr. Zaslow is a physician first licensed by the Board on
December 2, 1986, License No. 30885.

3. During the times relevant herein, Dr. Zaslow practiced
medicine in Asheville, North Carolina.

Allegations

4. In or about May 2007, Dr. Zaslow, as an independent
contractor, provided medical services through Secure
Telemedicine, a business corporation located in Miami, Florida
that renders medical services in North Carolina, including

prescriptions, via the telephone.
5. Dr. Zaslow authorized prescriptions, including
prescriptions for controlled substances, for numerous patients
without a physical examination and without any prior physician-
patient relationship between Dr. Zaslow and the patients that
might have permitted, depending on good medical practice, issuing
a new prescription without a physical examination.

6. During May 2007, Secure Telemedicine, through Dr.
Zaslow, rendered medical care to patients in North Carolina, and,
thus, Secure Telemedicine engaged in the unauthorized practice of
medicine.

7. During May 2007, Dr. Zaslow permitted Secure
Telemedicine to bill patients for medical services rendered by
Dr. Zaslow, and a portion of the fees collected from such
patients was used to pay Dr. Zalow’s compensation while the
remainder was used to pay other expenses of Secure Telemedicine.

8. Presently, Dr. Zaslow, as an independent contractor,
provides medical services through CallMD, a business corporation
located in Frisco, TX that renders medical services, including
prescriptions, via the telephone.

9. As an independent contractor for CallMD, Dr. Zaslow
authorizes prescriptions for patients without a physical
examination and without any prior physician-patient relationship

between Dr. Zaslow and the patients that might have permitted,
depending on good medical practice, issuing a new prescription
without a physical examination.

10. CallMD, through Dr. Zaslow, is rendering medical care
to patients in North Carolina, and, thus, CallMD is engaging in
the unauthorized practice of medicine.

11. Dr. Zaslow permits CallMD to bill patients for medical
services rendered by Dr. Zaslow, and a portion of the fees
collected from such patients was used to pay Dr. Zaslow a

consulting fee while the remainder was used to pay other expenses

of CallMp.
Charge 1
12. Paragraphs one through seven are re-alleged and
incorporated herein by reference.
13. By prescribing medications to patients without a
physical examination and in the absence of a prior physician-
patient relationship, Dr. Zaslow engaged and is engaging in

unprofessional conduct within the meaning of N.C. Gen. Stat. §

90-14 (a) (6).

Charge 2
14. Paragraphs one through seven are re-alleged and
incorporated herein by reference.
15. By assisting in the unauthorized practice of medicine
by Secure Telemedicine and CallMD, Dr. Zaslow engaged and is

engaging in unprofessional conduct, within the meaning of N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 90-14(a) (6).
Charge 3

16. Paragraphs one through seven are re-alleged and
incorporated herein by reference.

17. By splitting with Secure Telemedicine and Cal1MD the
fees he generated from practicing medicine, Dr. Zaslow engaged
and is engaging in unprofessional conduct, within the meaning of
N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-14(a) (6).

NOTICE TO DR. ZASLOW

Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-14.2, it is hereby
ordered that a hearing on the foregoing Notice of Charges and
Allegations will be held before the Board at 8:00 a.m. on June
18, 2008, or as soon as thereafter as the Board may hear it, at
1203 Front Street, Raleigh, North Carolina, to continue until
completed. The hearing will be held pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 150B-40, 41, and 42, and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-14.2, 14.4, 14.5,
and 14.6. You may appear personally and through counsel, may
cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in your own behalf.

You may, if you desire, file written answers to the charges and
complaints preferred against you within 30 days after the service
of this notice.

Pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 150B-40(c)(5), it is further
ordered that the parties shall arrange a prehearing conference at

which they shall prepare and sign a stipulation on prehearing
conference substantially in the form attached hereto. The
prehearing stipulation shall be submitted to the undersigned no
later than seven days prior to the hearing date.

The right to be present during the hearing of this case,
including any such right conferred or implied by N.C. Gen. Stat.
§ 150B-40(d), shall be deemed waived by a party or his counsel by
voluntary absence from the Board’s office at a time when it is
known that proceedings, including deliberations, are being
conducted, or are about to be conducted. In such event the
proceedings, including additional proceedings after the Board hag
retired to deliberate, may go forward without waiting for the
arrival or return of counsel or a party.

This the 9° day of May, 2008.

NORTH CAROLINA MEDICAL BOARD

ay, Preble. A Rhea. MO, PEP

Janelle Rhyne, M.D.
President

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that a copy of the foregoing Notice of
Charges and Allegations was enclosed in a certified, return receipt
requested, post-paid envelope addressed to Ely D. Zaslow, MD, 128
Hawk Ridge, Asheville, NC 28804 and delivered to a post office for
mailing certified mail return receipt requested as required by N.C.

Gen. Stat. § 90-14.3.

This the 9° day of May, 2008.
EME,

Brian L. Blankefship

