OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

es
aa
BS
Bg 8
a88
Boe
Bae
0 Se
HRE~
or



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

REK ES

In the Matter of Charges and
Case No. 09-30321-1

Complaint Against
ADRIAN ADRIAN, M.D., FILED
JUN 18 2009
Respondent. oe

STATE BOARD OF
AL EXAMINERS

New’ ‘rane ‘wee’ Neue “Neue “eee Nene” “eee” Ne”

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners , composed

of Charles N. Held, M.D., Jean Stoess, M.A., and Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., at the time of the
authorization of filing this formal complaint, by and through Edward O. Cousineau, counsel for the
Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Adrian Adrian, M.D., hereinafter
referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its
formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on May 17,
2005, Respondent’s license to practice medicine is currently in active status, and at all times
alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. In April of 2008, in lieu of formal disciplinary proceedings, Respondent entered
into a Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order with the Medical Board of California (see
Exhibit 1), which revoked Respondent’s license to practice medicine, the revocation was stayed
with Respondent being obligated to comply with various terms and conditions should he desire to
return to practice in the state of California in the future.

3. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary

action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



license to. practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary
action.

4. The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of California, constitute violations of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

5. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him,

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 18" day of June, 2009.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in

the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

CHAO |

Charles N. Held, M.D.

Dated this 18™ day of June, 2009.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 18" day of June 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT a original copy of the
SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT along with fingerprinting

information by mailing via USPS certified return receipt to the following:

Maria Nutile, Esq.

Nutile Pitz & Associates

1070 Horizon Ridge Pkwy, Ste. 210
Henderson, NV 89012

Dated this 18" day of June 2009.

Leg. DDe whew

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation )
Against: ) Case No: 06-2005-164993
) OAH No: 2008010323
ADRIAN ADRIAN, M.D. )
Physician’s and Surgeon’s )
Certificate #AFE 56237 )
Respondent. )
DECISION AND ORDER

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby accepted and
adopted as the Decision and Order by the Medical Board of California, Department of
Consumer Affairs, State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on June 30, 2008.

IT IS SO ORDERED _May 30, 2008

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

Cesar A. Aristeiguieta, W.D., F.A.C.E.P.
Chair, Panel A

EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California

KLINT JAMES MCKAY, State Bar No. 120881
Deputy Attorney General

300 So. Spring Street, Suite 1702

Los Angeles, CA 90013

Telephone: (213) 576-1327

Facsimile: (213) 897-9395

E-mail: klint.mckay@doj.ca.gov

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No, 062005164993
ADRIAN, ADRIAN, M.D. OAH No. 2008010323
10030 Liberty View Rd. STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND

Las Vegas, NV 89148 DISCIPLINARY ORDER
Physician and Surgeon No. AFE56237

Respondent.

In the interest of a prompt and speedy settlement of this mattef, consistent with the public
interest and the responsibility of the Medical Board of California of the Department of Consumer
Affairs (“Board”), the parties hereby agree to the following Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order which will be submitted to the Board for approval and adoption as the final
disposition of the Accusation.

PARTIES

1) Barbara Johnston (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Board. She
brought this action solely in her official capacity and is represented in this matter by Edmund G.
Brown Jr., Attorney General of the State of California, by Klint James McKay, Deputy Attorney
General.

2) Respondent Adrian, Adrian, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this proceeding
by attorney Arthur Robert Chenen, whose address is Theodora Oringher Miller & Richman PC,

1]



2029 Century Park E, Sixth Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90067-2907 and Mark Waecker, Esq.,
whose address is 300 South Grand Ave., 24" Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90071.

3) On or about August 7, 1996, the Board issued Physician and Surgeon No.
AFE56237 to Adrian, Adrian, M.D. (Respondent). Said license is delinquent and in “Retired”
status; it expired on March 31, 2008. Respondent does not currently reside or practice medicine

in California.

JURISDICTION

4) Accusation No. 062005164993 (the “Accusation”) was filed before the Board, and
is currently pending against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily required
documents were properly served on Respondent on September 7, 2007. Respondent timely filed
his Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation. A copy of the Accusation is attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5) Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
charges and allegations in the Accusation. Respondent has also carefully read, fully discussed
with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order,

6) Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearmg on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to be represented by counsel at
his own expense; the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him; the right to
present evidence and to testify on his own behalf; the right to the issuance of subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents; the right to reconsideration
and court review of an adverse decision; and all other rights accorded by the California
Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws.

7) Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up each
and every right set forth above.

CULPABILITY

8) Respondent understands and agrees that the charges and allegations in Accusation

Number 062005164993, if proven at a hearing, constitute cause for imposing discipline upon

his Physician and Surgeon's Certificate Number AFE56237.

9) For the purpose of resolving the Accusation without the expense and uncertainty
of further proceedings, Respondent agrees that, at a hearing, Complainant could present a prima
Jacie case establishing the factual basis for the charges in the Accusation. Respondent hereby
gives up his right to contest those charges.

10) | Respondent agrees that his Physician and Surgeon's Certificate Number
AFE56237 1s subject to discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Board's imposition of
discipline as set forth in the Disciplinary Order below.

CONTINGENCY

11) = This stipulation 1 is subject to approval by the Board. Respondent understands and
agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Board may communicate directly with
the Board regarding this stipulation and settlement, without notice to or participation by
Respondent or his counsel. By signing the stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that
he may not withdraw his agreement or ‘seek to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board
considers and acts upon it. Ifthe Board fails to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order,
this Stipulated Settlertient and Disciplinary Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this
paragraph, it shall be inadmissible i in any legal action between the parties, and the Board shall not
be disqualified frotn farther action by having considered this matter.

12) The parties understand and agree that facsimile copies of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including facsimile signatures thereto, shall have the same
force and effect as the originals.

13) In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree
that the Board may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the following
Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

14) IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Respondent’s Physician and Surgeon License
No, AFE56237 is revoked. However, such revocation is stayed and Respondent placed on seven

years probation on the following terms and conditions, which shall commence from the date




Respondent’s license is restored from “Retired” status. If Respondent does not apply to restore
his license from “Retired” status ‘within two years from the effective date of the Order by the
Medical Board after its adoption of this Stipulation, said license shall be canceled pursuant to

Paragraph 15 hereinbelow on the terms and conditions set forth therein.

a) Respondent’s license shall be actually suspended for eighteen months from the

date his license is restored from “Retired” status;

b) Respondent shall complete forty additional hours of continuing medical education

annually for the duration of probation as more fully set forth in Paragraph 16 below;

c) Respondent shall complete an approved medical record keeping course, an
approved ethics course, and full PACE (Physician Assessment and Clinical Education) program,
al! within six months of the date Respondent actually resumes California practice, as set forth

more fully in Paragraphs 17, 18 and 19, respectively;

d) Respondent shall have a practice and billing monitor, at his cost, during the entire

period of probation as more fully set forth in Paragraph 20;

e) No solo practice as set forth in Paragraph 21; and
-f) Compliance with all other terms and conditions in this Stipulation,

15) NON RESUMPTION OF CALIFORNIA PRACTICE If Respondent has not

applied to restore his license from “Retired” status in California within the two years as set forth
in the preceding paragraph, his medical license wil] be canceled. There will be no tolling of this
provision; this period will begin to run from the date of the Order by the Medical Board after its
adoption of this Stipulation. After such cancellation, Respondent must apply for (and be granted)
relicensure before practicing medicine in California. This may be denied or conditioned upon

any and all terms, without limitation, deemed appropriate by the Board in its sole discretion.

16) ADDITIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION COURSES Within 60 calendar

days of the date Respondent’s license is restored from “Retired” status, and on an annual basis

kh WY


thereafter for the duration of his probation, Respondent shall submit to the Board or its desi gnee
for its prior approval educational program(s) or course(s) which shal! not be less than 40 hours
per year. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be aimed at correcting any areas of
deficient practice or knowledge and shall be Category I certified, limited to classroom,
conference, or seminar settings. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be at
Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME)
requirements for renewal of licensure. Following the completion of each course, the Board or its
designee may administer an examination to test Respondent's knowledge of the course.
Respondent shal] provide proof of attendance for 65 hours of continuing medical education of

which 40 hours were in satisfaction of this condition.

17) MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE Within 60 calendar days of the date

Respondent’s license is restored from “Retired” status, Respondent shall enroll in a course in
medical record keeping, at Respondent’s expense, approved in advance by the Board or its
designee. Failure to successfully complete the course during the first 6 months of probation is a

violation of probation.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges
in the Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the
Board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would

have been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective

date of this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or
its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later

than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later,

18) ETHICS COURSE Within 60 calendar days of the date Respondent’s license is
restored from ‘‘Retired” status, Respondent shall enroll in a course in ethics, at Respondent’s
expense, approved in advance by the Board or its designee. Failure to successfully complete the

course during the first year of probation is a violation of probation.

& bo

in

sD


12°


An ethics course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have

been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of

this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or

{| its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later

than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

19) CLINICAL TRAINING PROGRAM (PACE) Within 60 calendar days of the

date Respondent’s license is restored from “Retired” status, Respondent shal] enroll in a clinical
training or educational program equivalent to the Physician Assessment and Clinical Education
Program (PACE) offered at the University of California - San Diego School of Medicine
(“Program”).

The Program shall consist of a Comprehensive Assessment program comprised of
a two-day assessment of Respondent’s physical and mental health; basic clinical and
communication skills common to all clinicians: and medical knowledge, skill and judgment
pertaining to Respondent’s specialty or sub-specialty, and at minimum, a 40 hour program of
clinical education in the area of practice in which Respondent was alleged to be deficient and
which takes into account data obtained from the assessment, Decision(s), Accusation(s), and any
other information that the Board or its designee deems relevant. Respondent shall pay all

expenses associated with the clinical training program.

Based on Respondent’s performance and test results in the assessment and clinical
education, the Program will advise the Board or its designee of its recommendation(s) for the
scope and length of any additional educational or clinical training, treatment for any medical
condition, treatment for any psychological condition, or anything else affecting Respondent’s

practice of medicine. Respondent shall comply with Program recommendations,

At the completion of any additional educational or clinical training, Respondent



1]

shall submit to and pass an examination. The Program’s determination whether or not

Respondent passed the examination or successfully completed the Program shall be binding.

Respondent shal] complete the Program not later than six months after
Respondent’s initial enrollment unless the Board or its designee agrees in writing to a later time

for completion,

Failure to participate in and complete successfully all phases of the clinical

training program outlined above is a violation of probation.

Respondent shal] not practice medicine until Respondent has successfully
completed the Program and has been so notified by the Board or its designee in writing, except
that Respondent may practice in a clinical training program approved by the Board or its
designee. Respondent’s practice of medicine shall be restricted only to that which is required by

the approved training program.

After Respondent has successfully completed the clinical training program, Respondent
shall participate in a professional enhancement program equivalent to the one offered by the
Physician Assessment and Clinical Education Program at the University of California, San Diego
School of Medicine, which shall include quarterly chart review, semi-annual practice assessment,
and semi-annual review of professional growth and education. Respondent shall participate in
the professional enhancement program at Respondent’s expense during the term of probation, or

until the Board or its designee determines that further participation is no longer necessary.

Failure to participate in and complete successfully the professional enhancement

program outlined above is a violation of probation.

20) MONITORING - PRACTICE/BILLING Within 30 calendar days of the date

Respondent’s license is restored from “Retired” status, Respondent shall submit to the Board or
its designee for prior approval as a practice and billing monitor, the name and qualifications of
one or more licensed physicians and surgeons whose licenses are valid and in good standing, and
who are preferably American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) certified. A monitor shall

have no prior or current business or personal relationship with Respondent, or other relationship



12,


that could reasonably be expected to compromise the ability of the monitor to render fair and

4 unbiased reports to the Board, including, but not limited to, any form of bartering, shall be in

Respondent’s field of practice, and must agree to serve as Respondent’s monitor. Respondent

shal] pay all monitoring costs.

The Board or its designee shall provide the approved monitor with copies of the
Decision(s) and Accusation(s), and a proposed monitoring plan. Within 15 calendar days of
receipt of the Decision(s), Accusation(s), and proposed monitoring plan, the monitor shall submit

a signed statement that the monitor has read the Decision(s) and Accusation(s), fully understands

the role of a monitor, and agrees or disagrees with the proposed monitoring plan. If the monitor

disagrees with the proposed monitoring plan, the monitor shall submit a revised monitoring plan

with the signed statement.

Within 60. calendar days of the date Respondent’s license is restored from
“Retired” status, and continuing throughout probation, Respondent’s practice and billing shall be
monitored by the approved monitor or monitors. Respondent shall make all records available for
immediate inspection and copying on the premises by the monitor at all times during business

hours, and shall retain the records for the entire term of probation.

The monitor(s) shall submit a quarterly written report to the Board or its designee
which includes an evaluation of Respondent's performance, indicating whether Respondent’s
practices are within the standards of practice of medicine or billing, or both, and whether

Respondent is practicing medicine safely, billing appropriately or both.

It shall be the sole responsibility of Respondent to ensure that the monitor submits

the quarterly written reports to the Board or its designee within 10 calendar days after the end of

the preceding quarter.

If the monitor resigns or is no longer available, Respondent shall, within 5
calendar days of such resignation or unavailability, submit to the Board or its designee, for prior
approval, the name and qualifications of a replacement monitor who will be assuming that

responsibility within 15 calendar days. If Respondent fails to obtain approval of a replacement


a HN

1]



monitor within 60 days of the resignation or unavailability of the monitor, Respondent shall be
suspended from the practice of medicine until a replacement monitor is approved and prepared to
assume immediate monitoring responsibility. Respondent shall cease the practice of medicine

within 3 calendar days after being so notified by the Board or designee.

In leu of a monitor, Respondent may participate in a professional enhancement
program equivalent to the one offered by the Physician Assessment and Clinica] Education
Program at the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, that includes, at
minimum, quarterly chart review, semi-annual practice assessment, and semi-annual review of
professional growth and education. Respondent shall participate in the professional enhancement

program at Respondent’s expense during the term of probation.

Failure to maintain all records, or to make all appropriate records available for

immediate inspection and copying on the premises, or to comply with this condition as outlined

above is a violation of probation.

21) SOLO PRACTICE Respondent is prohibited from engaging in the solo practice

of medicine during the period of his probation.

22) NOTIFICATION Prior to engaging in the practice of medicine in California, the
Respondent shall provide a true copy of the Decision(s) and Accusation(s) to the Chief of Staff
or the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to
Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent en gages in the practice of medicine,
including all physician and ]ocum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief
Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to

Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board or its designee within

15 calendar days,

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or

insurance carrier.

23) SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS During probation, Respondent

is prohibited from supervising physician assistants.


wo



24) QBEY ALL LAWS Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all
rules governing the practice of medicine in California, and remain in full compliance with any

court ordered criminal probation, payments and other orders.

25) QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS During probation, Respondent shal) submit

quarterly declarations under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether
there has been compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall submit

quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter.

26) PROBATION UNIT COMPLIANCE Respondent shall comply with the rules

and regulations of the Board's probation unit during probation. Respondent shall, at all times,
keep the Board infonned of Respondent’s business and residence addresses. Changes of such
addresses shall be immediately communicated in writing to the Board or its designee, Under no
circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by

Business and Professions Code section 2021 (b).

Respondent shal} not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s place of
residence. Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and

surgeon’s license during probation.

During probation, Respondent shall immediately inform the Board or its designee,
in writing, of travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is

contemplated to last, more than 30 calendar days.

27) INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE Respondent shall be

available in person for interviews either at Respondent’s place of business or at the probation
unit office, with the Board or its designee, upon request at various intervals, and either with or

without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

28) EFFECT OF SUSPENSION, DEFINITION OF ‘‘NON PRACTICE”

The suspension set forth in Paragraph 14(a) above shal] not be considered non practice.

For the purposes of any provision in this document, “non practice” means any period of




time exceeding 30 calendar days in which Respondent is not engaging, in California, in any

activity defined in sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

_29) FAILURE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE IN CALIFORNIA

In the event Respondent resides or practices in California within the initial two
year period set forth in Paragraphs 14 and 15, and for any reason later stops practicing medicine
in California, Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing at least 30 calendar
days prior to the commencement of non practice. Any such period of non practice will not
reduce the probationary term and does not relieve Respondent of the responsibility to comply

with the terms and conditions of probation.

Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice outside California will not
reduce the probationary term; they will, however, relieve Respondent of the responsibility to
comply with the probationary terms and conditions, with the exception of this provision and

Paragraphs 24 and 26.

Respondent’s license shal] be automatically canceled if Respondent resides in California
but fails to engage, in California, in any of the activities described in Business and Professions

Code sections 2051 and 2052 within the two year period set forth in Paragraphs 14 and 15.

30) COMPLETION OF PROBATION Respondent shall comply with all financial
obligations (probation and monitoring costs, for example) not later than 120 calendar days prior
to the completion of probation. Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent's license

shall be fully restored.

31) VIOLATION OF PROBATION Failure to fully comply with any term or

condition of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke
probation and carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, Petition to
Revoke Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation,
the Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation

shall be extended until the matter is final.


"20


32) LICENSE SURRENDER Following the date Respondent’s license is restored
from ‘‘Retired” status, if Respondent ceases practicing in California due to retirement, health
reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may
request the voluntary surrender of Respondent’s license. The Board reserves the i ght to evaluate
Respondent's request and to exercise its discretion whether or not to grant the request, or to take
any other action deemed appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal
acceptance of the surrender, Respondent shall within 15 calendar days deliver Respondent’s
wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its designee and Respondent shall no longer practice
medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject to the terms and conditions of probation and the
surrender of Respondent’s license shall be deemed disciplinary action. If Respondent reapplies

for a medical license, the application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked

certificate.

33) PROBATION MONITORING COSTS Respondent shal] pay the costs

associated with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the
Board or its designee, and as it may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be payable
to the Board of California and delivered to the Board or its designee no later than J anuary 31 of

each calendar year. Failure to pay costs within 30 calendar days of the due date is a violation of

probation.

ACCEPTANCE

J have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and

‘| have fully discussed it with my attorneys, Arthur Robert Chenen and Mark Waecker. ]

understand the Stipulation and the effect it will have on my California Physician and Surgeon’s
license. I enter into this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly,

and intelligently, and agree to be bound by the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of

California.

Bl /
Std


( (

APR-Ze=2000 03:02PM = FROM-ADR sORI AN + T1836 P.002/D02 ae

sare, [25108

T have reed end fully dcumed the tennis and conditions snxf Othar meters
| pontaindd in the sbova Bupulsted Sectlement and Disciptinary Orda with Respandent Adrian,
Adsian, WD. I approve its form and canient.



—_— FF et
Yo - Oo


1s 4
- ARPHUR ROBERT .CHENEN,
7 Atiorosy fbr Respondent

iF 3

» ENDORSEMENT

APR-23-2683 13:08 3185510283 38%
ae

oOo SI} UN O

1]



DOJ Matter ID: 062005 164993

Stipulation 2.) .wpd

a

Exhibit A
Accusation No. 062005164993


