OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and
Case No. 09-32628-1

Complaint Against )
TIMOTHY T. HAMILTON, M.D., ) FILED
) SEP 08
Respondent. ) .. sep " me OF
) NEDIGAL EXAMINERS

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A., and Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., at
the time of the authorization of filing this formal complaint, by and through Edward O. Cousineau,
counsel for the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Timothy T.
Hamilton, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS
Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and
allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent license to practice medicine is currently active, and at all times
alleged herein, Respondent was licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners,
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. In February of 2009, Respondent entered into a Consent Agreement with the
Texas Medical Board. An associated Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order imposed a
$1,000.00 administrative penalty against Respondent. (See Exhibit 1)

3. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary
action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the
license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary

action.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301



4. The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Arizona, constitute violations of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

5. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this ©” “day of September, 2009.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

aT, on
Z/ :
By: n> —_
Edward O. Cousineau

Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301

Nw




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 8" day of September 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, ORIGINAL of
the SETTLEMENT, WAIVER & CONSENT AGREEMENT & FINGERPRINTING

Information, by mailing via USPS certified return receipt mail to the following:

Timothy T. Hamilton, M.D.
1701 N. Green Valley Pkwy., Ste. 5-C.
Henderson, NV 89074

Dated this 8" day of September 2009.

kon DD nAarn_

Angie Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT

LICENSE NO. L-2921

IN THE MATTER OF

BEFORE THE
THE LICENSE OF
TIMOTHY THOMAS HAMILTON, M.D. TEXAS MEDICAL BOARD

AGREED ORDER

On the loth day of Firbruanres , 2009, came on to be heard before the

Texas Medical Board (the “Board”), duly in session, the matter of the license of Timothy

Thomas Hamilton, M.D. (“Respondent”).

On October 24, 2008, Respondent appeared in person, with counsel Jeff McClure, at an
Informal Show Compliance Proceeding and Settlement Conference in response to a letter of
invitation from the staff of the Board. The Board’s representatives were Annette P.
Raggette, a member of the Board, and Chevy C. Lee, M.D., a member of a District Review
Committee. Claudia Kirk represented Board staff.

Upon the recommendation of the Board’s representatives and with the consent of
Respondent, the Board makes the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and enters

this Agreed Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

The Board finds that:

1. Respondent received all notice required by law. All jurisdictional requirements
have been satisfied. Respondent waives any defect in notice and any further right to notice or
hearing under the Medical Practice Act, Title 3, Subtitle B, Texas Occupations Code (the “Act”)
or the Rules of the Board.

2. Respondent currently holds Texas Medical License No. L-2921. Respondent was
originally issued this license to practice medicine in Texas on December 7, 2001. Respondent is

also licensed to practice in Nevada (License No. 12249).

Page | of 7 Pages

3. Respondent is primarily engaged in the practice of thoracic surgery. Respondent
is board certified by the American Board of Surgery and the American Board of Thoracic
Surgery; both are members of the American Board of Medical Specialties.

4. Respondent is 39 years of age.

5. Respondent has not received a prior disciplinary order from the Board.

6. In February of 2007, K.S. asked Respondent to prescribe the Clonazepam for her,
but in the name of her best friend, M.D. Respondent had never met or spoken to M.D.

7. On February 14, 2007, Respondent wrote a prescription for 30 Clonazepam (1
mg) tablets for a person named M.D.

8. K.S. is a registered nurse co-worker, with whom Respondent worked with at the
hospital

9. K.S. told Respondent that she had an agreement with M.D. to put prescriptions in

her friend M.D.’s name, so K.S.’s husband would not be aware she was taking the medication.

10. On February 22, 2007, the prescription was filled at a CVS Pharmacy in
Arlington, TX.

11. Although, K.S. and M.D. actually are friends, M.D. apparently was not aware the
prescription was in her name. M.D. later found out about the prescription when she was denied
an insurance policy and had to submit to drug testing as a result of having a Clonazepam
prescription written in her name.

12. In determining the appropriate sanctions for Respondent’s violation of the Act,
the Board considered the following mitigation factors: Respondent has admitted his mistake and
appears to be sincerely remorseful; he has reported this investigation to the medical board and
hospitals, at which he has privileges, in another state where he is currently practicing, although
that state’s laws do not require such a report; and since finding out that M.D. had no knowledge
of the prescription and had her insurance denied, Respondent has also attempted to make amends
with M.D. and offered to write a letter to her insurance company.

13. Respondent does not admit or deny the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
set forth in this Agreed Order. However, Respondent has cooperated in the investigation of the
allegations related to this Agreed Order. Respondent's cooperation, through consent to this
Agreed Order, pursuant to the provisions of Section 164.002 the Act, will save money and

resources for the State of Texas. To avoid further investigation, hearings, and the expense and

Page 2 of 7 Pages
inconvenience of litigation, Respondent agrees to the entry of this Agreed Order and to comply

with its terms and conditions.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the above Findings of Fact, the Board concludes that:

1. The Board has jurisdiction over the subject matter and Respondent pursuant to the
Act.

2. Section 164.051(a)(6) of the Act authorizes the Board to take disciplinary action
against Respondent based on Respondent’s failure to practice medicine in an acceptable
professional manner consistent with public health and welfare, as further defined by Board Rule
190.8(1)(M), inappropriate prescription of dangerous drugs or controlled substances to oneself,
family members, or others in which there is a close personal relationship.

3. Section 164.052(a)(5) of the Act authorizes the Board to take disciplinary action
against Respondent based upon Respondent’s unprofessional or dishonorable conduct that is
likely to deceive or defraud the public or injure the public.

4. Sections 164.052(a)(5) and 164.053(a)(4) of the Act authorize the Board to take
disciplinary action against Respondent based on Respondent writing false or fictitious
prescriptions for dangerous drugs as defined by Chapter 483, Health and Safety Code, controlled
substances scheduled in Chapter 481, Health and Safety Code or controlled substances scheduled
in the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. Section 801 et
seq.).

5. Sections 164.052(a)(5) and 164.053(a)(6) of the Act authorizes the Board to take
disciplinary action against Respondent based on Respondent prescribing, administering, or
dispensing in a manner inconsistent with public health and welfare, dangerous drugs as defined
by Chapter 483, Health and Safety Code; or controlled substances scheduled in Chapter 481
Health and Safety Code; or controlled substances scheduled in the Comprehensive Drug Abuse
Prevention and Control Act of 1970, (21 U.S.C. 3 801 et seq.).

6. Section 164.001 of the Act authorizes the Board to impose a range of disciplinary
actions against a person for violation of the Act or a Board rule. Such sanctions include:

revocation, suspension, probation, public reprimand, limitation or restriction on practice,

Page 3 of 7 Pages

counseling or treatment, required educational or counseling programs, monitored practice, public

service, and an administrative penalty.
7. Section 164.002(a) of the Act authorizes the Board to resolve and make a

disposition of this matter through an Agreed Order.
8. Section 164.002(d) of the Act provides that this Agreed Order is a settlement

agreement under the Texas Rules of Evidence for purposes of civil litigation.

ORDER

Based on the above Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Board ORDERS that
Respondent shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:

1. Respondent shall pay an administrative penalty in the amount of $1000 within 90
days following the date of the entry of this Order. The administrative penalty shall be paid ina
single payment by cashier's check or money order payable to the Texas Medical Board and shall
be submitted to the Board for routing so as to be remitted to the Comptroller of Texas for deposit
in the general revenue fund. Respondent's failure to pay the administrative penalty as ordered
shall constitute grounds for further disciplinary action by the Board, and may result in a referral
by the Executive Director of the Board for collection by the Office of the Attorney General.

2. Respondent shall comply with all the provisions of the Act and other statutes
regulating the Respondent’s practice.

3, Respondent shall fully cooperate with the Board and the Board staff, including
Board attorneys, investigators, compliance officers, consultants, and other employees or agents
of the Board in any way involved in investigation, review, or monitoring associated with
Respondent's compliance with this Order. Failure to fully cooperate shall constitute a violation of
this order and a basis for disciplinary action against Respondent pursuant to the Act.

4, Respondent shall inform the Board in writing of any change of Respondent's
mailing or practice address within 30 days of the address change. This information shall be
submitted to the Permits Department and the Director of Enforcement for the Board. Failure to
provide such information in a timely manner shall constitute a basis for disciplinary action by the
Board against Respondent pursuant to the Act.

5. Any violation of the terms, conditions, or requirements of this Order by

Respondent shall constitute unprofessional conduct likely to deceive or defraud the public, or to

Page 4 of 7 Pages
injure the public, and shall constitute a basis for disciplinary action by the Board against
Respondent pursuant to the Act. Respondent agrees that 10 days notice of a Probationer Show
Compliance Proceeding to address any allegation of non-compliance of this Agreed Order is
adequate and reasonable notice prior to the initiation of formal disciplinary action. Respondent
waives the 30-day notice requirement provided by. §164.003(b)(2) of the Medical Practice Act
and agrees to 10 days notice, as provided in 22 Texas Administrative Code §187.44(4).

6. Respondent shall be permitted to supervise and delegate prescriptive authority to
physician assistants and advanced practice nurses and to supervise surgical assistants.

7. This Order shall automatically terminate upon the provision of evidence to the Board
demonstrating that Respondent has successfully completed the requirements in Ordering

Paragraph No. 1.
RESPONDENT WAIVES ANY FURTHER HEARINGS OR APPEALS TO THE BOARD OR
TO ANY COURT IN REGARD TO ALL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREED

ORDER. RESPONDENT AGREES THAT THIS IS A FINAL ORDER.

THIS ORDER IS A PUBLIC RECORD.

Page 5 of 7 Pages

I, TIMOTHY THOMAS HAMILTON, M.D., HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE
FOREGOING AGREED ORDER. I UNDERSTAND THAT BY SIGNING, I WAIVE
CERTAIN RIGHTS. I SIGN IT VOLUNTARILY. 1 UNDERSTAND THIS AGREED ORDER
CONTAINS THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND THERE IS NO OTHER AGREEMENT OF
ANY KIND, VERBAL, WRITTEN OR OTHERWISE.

DATED: __) |) S— 20084

TIMOTHY THOMAS HAMILTON, M.D.
Respondent

STATE OF Nevade_ §
county or Clay cg

ple ef acs eh Bolo Boo, Riel Freh lta pL cg
AID, Notary Public - Suatte ot Novade
od $4 County of Clart:
Bug My ALpoinreant Exuires
3 99-12480-1 January 5, 2012

SWORN TO AND ACKNOWLEDGED BEFORE ME, the undersigned Notary Public,

onthis/9 dayof U“Ae _, 2008. F C)

Signature of Notary Public

PPV TTT)

(Notary Seal)
SIGNED AND ENTERED by the presiding officer of the Texas Medical Board on this

bth day of February , 2009.

Yr ast AD
Irvin E. Zeitler, Jr., D.O.( Président
Texas Medical Board

STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF TRAVIS

f, certify that | am an offical
assistant cteodian of records for theTexas Medical Board,
and that this is a true and correct Copy of the original, as it
appears on file in this office.

Witness my official hand and seal of the Board, Page 7 of 7 Pages
: this at cay of Natit 2024,
: Assistant Cdstodiaf of Records

