1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



COPY

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against ) Case No. 09-32802-1
ELY ZASLOW, M.D., ) FILED
Respondent. ) MAY 1 2 2009
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of Charles N. Held,
M.D., Chairman, Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, and Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Member, by and
through counsel, Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., and Ely Zaslow, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about February 2, 2009, the IC of the Board filed a formal complaint in
the above-referenced matter, charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS
Chapter 630), to wit: revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice
medicine in another jurisdiction, a violation of NRS 630.301(3).

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands the
nature and significance of the Complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice
Act (NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B),
including but not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to
representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to

confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and



1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

— et
N WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
N N N N N N NO No — —

i)
Co

witnesses on his own behalf, the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to
waive all of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited
to the right to a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order,
and he agrees to settle and resolve this matter of the formal complaint against him by way of, and in
accordance with, this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly
meeting, duly noticed, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but
that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement,
and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board approves
the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s IC; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has reviewed and understands all the relevant facts and
circumstances of this matter and after due consideration concedes that his active license to practice
medicine in California has been suspended, modified and or limited as outlined in the Complaint
filed by the IC of the Board in this case.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against him by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the IC hereby
agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the

above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject



a

(775) 688-2559


1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

—_—
NN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

N
oO

to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical
Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent acknowledges that he understands that he

has the right to consult with counsel prior to entering into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently and that he has consulted with out-of-state
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may
apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein, the defense of said
complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that
the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right

to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent violated one or more

provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Underlying Facts. The facts underlying this Settlement, Waiver and Consent

Agreement are summarized in the consent order by the North Carolina Medical Board, which is

attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and is incorporated by reference.

6. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him,
finding that Respondent has violated Nevada’s Medical Practice Act to wit: the disciplinary action
related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of North Carolina constitutes a
violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3), and that based upon the same, that Respondent



a

(775) 688-2559

i

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

—_
NHN WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

i)
eo

shall be publicly reprimanded and that Respondent shall agree to the following terms and
conditions:

a. that Respondent has complied with all the terms and conditions set forth by the
North Carolina Medical Board in its Consent Order which became effective on July 18, 2008,
(see Exhibit 1);

b. that Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Board (hereinafter
“Compliance Officer”) within thirty (30) days of the approval and acceptance of this Agreement
in order to provide information regarding the most expeditious method of contacting him;

c. that Respondent shall sign a release of information allowing the Board to
communicate with the North Carolina Medical Board regarding Respondent’s compliance with
the terms of his North Carolina Consent Order and to obtain proof of completion of said
probation and reinstatement of his license without restrictions;

d. that Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Compliance Officer, or any other
designated person, in the administration and enforcement of this Agreement;

e. that Respondent agrees to pay the costs of investigation and prosecution of this
matter in the current amount of $1,141.53, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any,
within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by
the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent
pursuant to the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or
acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.
Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters

concerning this Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint, any and all evidence

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



that may exist in support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent.

8. Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available

Agenda of a regularly scheduled and duly noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly
understood that this Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the
recommendation of the IC for acceptance.

9. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order finding Respondent violated
NRS 630.301(3), which states that the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a
license to practice medicine by another jurisdiction is grounds for discipline, when his North
Carolina license to practice medicine was suspended.

10. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence

of bad faith.

11. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of

bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,


on EE ny
Ww NN = &

(775) 688-2559

cK

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

— —
CN WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1)
(oa)

executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The IC hereby
agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the
understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

12. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be

enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

13. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

14. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

15. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would
then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in
addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the Board in accordance

with NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Dated this day of he lane ~, 2009. .

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Mf


a
Oo NO FSF &

(775) 688-2559

is

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

ele
N WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

bo
oe]

I am in agreement with all of the terms of the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent

Agreement signed on the J “ay of Misrate , 2009, by Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.,

Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

Dated this_/ err day of /At4n~ A 2009.

Signature of Ely Zaslow, M.D.
subscribed and sworn to before me
this /O day of March , 2009

pe hl fa

Notary Pablic Mary Atice Green


a ed
Ww NO — &

(775) 688-2559

is

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

ON WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

NO
io]

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of May,

2009, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,141.53.

CHARLES N. HELD, President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

EXHIBIT —
BEFORE THE
NORTH CAROLINA MEDICAL BOARD
In re:
Ely D. Zaslow, M.D. CONSENT ORDER

Respondent.

Oe a al

This matter is before the North Carolina Medical Board
(hereinafter Board) regarding information that Ely David Zaslow,
M.D., (hereafter Dr. Zaslow) issued a limited number of
prescriptions to patients without first performing a physical
exam. Dr. Zaslow admits and the Board finds and concludes, the
following:

Whereas the Board is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding
under the authority granted it in Article 1 of Chapter 90 of the
North Carolina General Statutes, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow is a physician first licensed by the
Board on December 2, 1986, license No. 30885, and

Whereas during the times relevant herein, Dr. Zaslow practiced
medicine in North Carolina, and

Whereas in or about May 2007, Dr. Zaslow, as an independent
contractor, provided medical services for a period of three days
through Secure Telemedicine, a business corporation located in

Miami, Florida that renders medical services in North Carolina,
including prescriptions, via telephone conferences between
physicians and patients, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow issued a limited number of prescriptions
over a three day period only, including a few prescriptions for
controlled substances, for patients without a physical
examination and without any prior physician-patient relationship
between Dr. Zaslow and the patients that might have permitted,
depending on good medical practice, issuing a prescription
without a physical examination, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow also denied prescriptions over this three
day period to patients seeking medication, referred patients to
the Emergency Department or to other providers, issued
prescriptions only for chronic conditions for which the patients
had prior prescriptions through their primary or other care
providers, and Dr. Zaslow did evaluate the patients’ presenting
set of symptoms through a telephone conference to determine the
source of the problem and the need for a particular drug, and

Whereas because of his reliance on certain representations
made by Secure Telemedicine, Dr. Zaslow believed that a telephone
patient evaluation and subsequent prescriptions were consistent
with the Board’s position, and professional standards generally,

and
Whereas Dr. Zaslow ceased his participation with Secure
Telemedicine by his own initiative after a three day period, over
Secure Telemedicine’s objection, and without any contact or
threat of discipline by the Board, and

Whereas during May 2007, Secure Telemedicine billed patients
for medical services rendered by Dr. Zaslow, and a portion of the
fees collected from such patients was used to pay Dr. Zalow’s
compensation in a total amount not exceeding $250.00 while the
remainder was used to pay other expenses of Secure Telemedicine,
and

Whereas during May 2007, Secure Telemedicine, through Dr.
Zaslow, rendered medical care in North Carolina to patients, and,
thus, Secure Telemedicine engaged in the unauthorized practice of
medicine, and

Whereas, Dr. Zaslow, as an independent contractor, provided
medical services through CallMD, a business corporation located
in Frisco, TX that renders medical services, including
prescriptions, via telephone conferences between physicians and
patients, for a limited number of patients, and

Whereas as an independent contractor for CallMD, Dr. Zaslow
issued prescriptions for a limited number of patients, without a
physical examination and without any prior physician-patient

relationship between Dr. Zaslow and the patients that might have

Lor]
permitted, depending on good medical practice, issuing a
prescription without a physical examination, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow also denied prescriptions to these
patients, referred patients to the Emergency Department or to
other providers, issued prescriptions only for non-controlled
substances to treat chronic and non-acute conditions for which
the patients had prior prescriptions through their primary or
other care providers, and Dr. Zaslow did evaluate the patients’
presenting set of symptoms through a telephone conference to
determine the source of the problem and the need for a particular
drug, and

Whereas because of his reliance on certain representations
made by CallMD, Dr. Zaslow believed that a telephone patient
evaluation and subsequent prescriptions were consistent with the
Board’s position, and professional standards generally, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow has now ceased his participation with
CallMD, and

Whereas CallMD billed patients for medical services rendered
by Dr. Zaslow, and a portion of the fees collected from such
patients was used to pay Dr. Zaslow a consulting fee in a total
amount of less than $200, while the remainder was used to pay
other expenses of CallMD, and

Whereas CallMD, through Dr. Zaslow, rendered medical care to
patients in North Carolina, and, thus, CallMD engaged in the
unauthorized practice of medicine, and

Whereas by prescribing medications to patients without a
physical examination and in the absence of a prior physician-
patient relationship, Dr. Zaslow engaged in unprofessional
conduct within the meaning of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-14{a) (6), and

Whereas by assisting in the unauthorized practice of
medicine by Secure Telemedicine and CallMD, Dr. Zaslow engaged in
unprofessional conduct, within the meaning of N.C. Gen. Stat. §
90-14(a) (6), and

Whereas by splitting with Secure Telemedicine and CallMD the
fees he generated from practicing medicine, Dr. Zaslow engaged
and is engaging in unprofessional conduct, within the méaning of
N.c. Gen. Stat. § 90-14(a) (6), and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow acknowledges that he has an obligation to
ensure that his medical practice, including but not limited to
his prescribing practices, conforms to the accepted and
prevailing standard of practice in North Carolina, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow acknowledges he has read this entire
document and understands it, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow would like to resolve this matter without
the need for more formal proceedings such that he enters into

this consent order freely and voluntarily, and
Whereas Dr. Zaslow has enjoyed a full and unrestricted
medical license since 1986 and no other complaints have been
filed with the Board against him, and wi

. Whereas Dr. Zaslow communicated openly and cooperated fully
with the Board in its investigation of this matter, and

Whereas the Board has not found that Dr. Zaslow’s conduct,
as described above, resulted in harm to any patient, and

Whereas Dr. Zaslow understands that this Consent Order is
subject to the approval of the Board and Dr. Zaslow agrees that he
will not raise any objection or advance any argument that the Board
or any of its members are disqualified from further participation
in this case by reason of the review and consideration of this
Consent Order, and

Whereas the Board determined it to be in the public interest
to resolve this matter as set forth below;

NOW, THEREFORE, with Dr. Zaslow’s consent, the Board enters
the following Order:

1. Dr. Zaslow’s license to practice medicine in North
Carolina is SUSPENDED for thirty (30) days; however, such
suspension is STAYED upon the following PROBATIONARY terms and

conditions:
a. Dr. Zaslow shall strictly comply with the Board’s
Position Statements entitled “Writing of Prescriptions” and
“Contact with Patients before Prescribing”.

b. Within 12 (twelve) months of the date of this
consent order, Dr. Zaslow shall attend a prescription writing
continuing medical education course acceptable to the Board, and
he shall provide proof of satisfactory completion of the course
to the Investigations Department of the North Carolina Medical
Board within thirty (30) days of completing the course.

c. Dr. Zaslow shall not prescribe medication for any
person without first physically examining that person, unless
such prescription is consistent with the Board’s position
statement titled “Contact with Patients before Prescribing”.

d. Dr. Zasiow shall not split fees with a business
corporation; that is, he shall not share fees generated from the
practice of medicine with a business corporation on a percentage
basis.

e. Dr. Zaslow shall obey all laws and all regulations
related to the practice of medicine.

£. Dr. Zaslow shall notify the Board in writing of
any change in his residence or practice addresses within 30 days

of the change.

g. Dr. Zaslow shall appear before the Board as such
times as requested by the Board.

2. If Dr. Zaslow fails to comply with any of the terms of
this Consent Order, that failure shall constitute unprofessional
conduct within the meaning of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 90-14(a) (6) and
shall be grounds, after any required notice and hearing, for the
Board to suspend or revoke his license, or to activate the stayed
portion of the suspension, or to deny any application he might
make in the future or then have pending for a license.

3. Dr. Zaslow hereby waives any requirement under any law
or rule that this Consent Order be served on him.

4. Upon execution by Dr. Zaslow and the Board, this
Consent Order shall become a public record within the meaning of
Chapter 132 of the North Carolina General Statutes and shall be
subject to public inspection and dissemination pursuant to the
provisions thereof. Additionally, the existence of this Consent
Order will be reported to person, entities, agencies, and
clearing houses, as required by law, including the Healthcare
Integrity and Protection Data Bank.

5. No provision of this consent order shall constitute an
admission by Dr. Zaslow for any purpose other than for this and
any other proceedings before the North Carolina Medical Board,

and shall not be admissible against Dr. Zaslow in any proceeding
outside of Board proceedings.

By order of the North Carolina Medical Board this the [Ath

day of \SOLY , 2008.
NORTH CAROLINA MEDICAL BOARD
QeorRe L- Saunders 1M MD
+h

Consented to this the IK day of ' Vora , 2008.

L

Ely Re tasfok, ED, ae

State of No RTH C4 ROLINA
U) KAILE County

1, UJANOS A. Loo o- , a Notary Public for the
above named County and State, do hereby certify that Ely D.
Zaslow, M.D., personally appeared before me this day and

‘acknowledged the due execution of the foregoing instrument.

Witness my hand and official seal

This the /Stday of Jie bey , 2008.

Wanda CG. foro

Notary Public
(SEAL)

My Commission expires: “~-/%- 20/0

