N

1]


‘ BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 09-31733-1

Complaint Against )

) FILED
AARON JAY GOODRUM, M.D., )

) AUG 4 1 2008

Respondent. )
DA STATE BOARD OF
) NE NEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of Charles N. Held, M.D, Chairman,
Benjamin Rodriguez, M.D, member, and Jean Stoess, M.A., member, by and through counsel Lyn E.
Beggs, Esq., and Aaron Jay Goodrum, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel John Okray, Esq.,
as follows:

WHEREAS, on February 25% 2009, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above referenced
matter charging Dr. Goodrum with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: two counts of disciplinary action
taken by another state, violations of NRS 630.301(3); and

WHEREAS, Dr. Goodrum has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands it,
and has consulted with competent counsel John Okray, Esq., concerning the nature and significance of
the Complaint and Dr. Goodrum is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to the complaint as
well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has engaged
in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act and after due consideration
and consultation with his counsel, concedes that disciplinary action was taken against his licenses to
practice medicine in both Florida and Missouri, as set forth in counts I and I of the Complaint; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Goodrum understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and

between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the



Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall advocate approval of
this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or
not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Goodrum and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that if the
Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Dr. Goodrum and the Board’s
Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
Dr. Goodrum by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Dr. Goodrum and the Investigative
Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
Complaint or to any amended complaints, Dr. Goodrum hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein
by the Board finding that Dr. Goodrum engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act to wit: that disciplinary action was taken against his medical licenses in Florida and
Missouri as alleged in counts I and II of the Complaint, violations of NRS 630.301(3). The Board shall
enter an order with the following terms:

a. that Dr. Goodrum shall pay a fine of $500, to be paid within sixty (60) days of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board;

b. that Dr. Goodrum shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in
the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $841.53 to be paid within sixty
(60) days of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board;

c. that Dr. Goodrum shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (hereinafter “Compliance Officer’) within thirty (30) days of the approval and
acceptance of this Agreement in order to provide information regarding the most expeditious method of

contacting him;



d. that Dr. Goodrum comply with and complete all terms of his settlement agreement with
the State of Florida, Department of Health;

e. that Dr. Goodrum shall sign a release of information with the State of Florida,
Department of Health to allow the Compliance Officer or another representative of the Board to speak
with and obtain any and all.information pertaining to the terms of his settlement agreement with Florida
and updates regarding his compliance with said settlement agreement, including but not limited to any
evaluations and information from the Professional Resource Network;

f. that Dr. Goodrum shall inform the Compliance Officer within 24 hours should he plan to
physically work within the state of Nevada;

g. that Dr. Goodrum, should he physically work within the state of Nevada, shall participate
in a designated Diversion program for a period to determine by said program and that he shall
participate and comply with all terms of conditions of participation in such a program;

h. that Dr. Goodrum shall reimburse the Board any costs associated with monitoring his
compliance with this agreement within thirty (30) days of a receiving a statement for such monitoring.

1. that Dr. Goodrum shall forward a copy of any and all documents from Florida to the
Compliance Officer showing that he has fulfilled all his obligations with the State of Florida,
Department of Health, and at such time monitoring by this Board shall cease.

2. Jurisdiction. Dr. Goodrum is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Waiver of Rights. Dr. Goodrum covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement

knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with counsel prior to entering
into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein, Dr. Goodrum knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of above identified
counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of
the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to his or that may

apply to his in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said



Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Dr. Goodrum further agrees that the
matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the
right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall
have no force and effect and Dr. Goodrum shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B
that may be available to his or that may apply to his in connection with the proceeding on the complaint
filed herein.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Dr. Goodrum covenants and agrees

that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Dr. Goodrum violated one
or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this Agreement

will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the Investigative Committee for
acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the Investigative Committee shall recommend
approval of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the Board in resolution of the
disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Dr. Goodrum pursuant to the complaint. In the course
of seeking Board approval of this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Dr. Goodrum covenants and agrees that such contacts
and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on
his part or on the part of his counsel, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed,
and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in support of
the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the complaint against
Dr. Goodrum. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that Dr. Goodrum and his counsel
may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed in order to respond to any and all

questions that may be addressed to the Investigative Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

N



6. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves the

terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee will
cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver and Consent
Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed, subject
to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

7. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of
no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement regarding disqualification
of adjudicating Board panel members. Dr. Goodrum agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this
Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the
Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board
shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against
Dr. Goodrum and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the
case, and Dr. Goodrum further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent
evidence of bad faith.

8. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Dr. Goodrum, for himself, his

executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Dr. Goodrum ever had, now has, may have or
claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by
reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection
with the complaint. The Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full
settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with
the Board.

9. Binding Effect. Dr. Goodrum covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding

—_—



and enforceable contract upon Dr. Goodrum and the Board’s Investigative Committee, which contract
may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Dr. Goodrum covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Dr. Goodrum covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving this

Agreement, upon receipt of credible information that Dr. Goodrum has failed to comply with any term
or condition of this Order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Dr. Goodrum’s license
until Dr. Goodrum complies with the term or condition. Failure to comply with the terms recited herein
may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Dr. Goodrum for a violation of an

Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Furthermore, any failure to pay any fine,

fee, or cost ordered herein will also result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect

the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

Dated this CF day of July of 2009. Dated this on day of July, 2009.
yn E. Beggs, Esq. CAG Yohn Okray, Edq.
Attomey for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Dr. Goodrum
of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Aaron Jay Goodrum, M.D. Respondent

th
Dated this /Y “day of July , 2009

bh WY N



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is approved
and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of August 2009, with the
final total amount of costs due of $841.53

“ Ronet lUte4

RENEE WEST, Secretary-Treasurer
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

