OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Pa
Dad
@ 0 iP
Ban
= Zoo
& § a
HGS
EZ&
OS
Ream
wn &
oS %

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

&h Ww Wb

1]


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and )
) Case No. 09-5834-1
Complaint Against )
JOHN D. LEWIS, M.D., ) FILED
Respondent. ) JUL 10 2009
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, and
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, Member, at the time of the authorization of filing this formal complaint, by
and through Edward O. Cousineau, counsel for the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable
basis to believe that John D. Lewis, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the
provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative
Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent license to practice medicine is currently inactive, and at all times
alleged herein, Respondent was licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners,
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. In August of 2008, Respondent entered into a Consent Agreement with the
Arizona Medical Board. An associated Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order imposed
a letter of reprimand upon Respondent based upon a standard of care deviation and failure to
maintain adequate and legible medical records regarding a patient treated by Respondent in
January of 2007. (See Exhibit 1)

3. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary

action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301


oo NN NWN UN RP WD NY KF OO wOolUlNSUCUNDNCCUCUNlURUlULUDNDlLlULrlLCUD

license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary

action.

4. The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Arizona, constitute violations of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

5. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as
provided in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 10" day of July, 2009.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

S
aa
HR
Sa
Ban
= 3
s §
Abe
ag
Ook
RE~
oS
wt

a



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this / 0"? day of July, 2009.

Charles N. Held, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

a



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 10™ day of July 2009, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, and a original copy of
the SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT along with fingerprinting

information by mailing via USPS certified return receipt to the following:

John D. Lewis, M.D.
901 W. La Lomitas Rd.
Tucson, AZ 85704-2709

Dated this 10" day of July 2009.

Lio y: DD orehon_

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

~ EXHIBIT


RRB FSABARtSB.2SsS


BEFORE THE ARIZONA MEDICAL BOARD

in the Matter of

Case No. MD-07-1024A
JOHN D. LEWIS, M.D.

CONSENT AGREEMENT FOR
Holder of License No. 11783 LETTER OF REPRIMAND
For the Practice of Allopathic Medicine
In the State of Arizona

CONSENT AGREEMENT

By mutual agreement and understanding, between the Arizona Medical Board
(‘Board’) and John D. Lewis, M.D. (‘Respondent’), the parties agreed to the following
disposition of this matter.

1. Respondent has read and understands this Consent Agreement and the
stipulated Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order (“Consent Agreement’).
Respondent acknowledges that he has the right to consult with legal counsel regarding
this matter.

2. By entering into this Consent Agreement, Respondent voluntarily
relinquishes any rights to a hearing or judicial review in state or federal court on the
matters alleged, or to challenge this Consent Agreement in its entirety as issued by the
Board, and waives any other cause of action related thereto or arising from said Consent
Agreement.

3. This Consent Agreement is not effective until approved by the Board and
signed by its Executive Director.

4. The Board may adopt this Consent Agreement or any part thereof. This
Consent Agreement, or any part thereof, may be considered in any future disciplinary
action against Respondent.

5. This Consent Agreement does not constitute a dismissal or resolution of other

matters currently pending before the Board, if any, and does not constitute any waiver,



express or implied, of the Board's statutory authority or jurisdiction regarding any other
pending or future investigation, action or proceeding. The acceptance of this Consent
Agreement does not preclude any other agency, subdivision or officer of this State from
instituting other civil or criminal proceedings with respect to the conduct that is the subject
of this Consent Agreement.

6. All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this
matter and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving
the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by Respondent are not intended
or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal goverment
regulatory agency proceeding, civil or criminal court proceeding, in the State of Arizona or
any other state or federal court.

7. Upon signing this agreernent, and returning this document (or a copy thereof) to
the Board’s Executive Director, Respondent may not revoke the acceptance of the|
Consent Agreement. Respondent may not make any modifications to the document. Any
modifications to this original document are ineffective and void unless mutually approved
by the parties.

8. If the Board does not adopt this Consent Agreement, Respondent will not
assert as a defense that the Board’s consideration of this Consent Agreement constitutes
bias, prejudice, prejudgment or other similar defense.

9. This Consent Agreement, once approved and signed, is a public record that will
be publicly disseminated as a formal action of the Board and will be reported to the
National Practitioner Data Bank and to the Arizona Medical Board’s website.

10. If any part of the Consent Agreement is later declared void or otherwise

unenforceable, the remainder of the Consent Agreement in its entirety shail remain in force

and effect.



11. Any violation of this Consent Agreement constitutes unprofessional conduct
and may result in disciplinary action. AR.S. § § 32-1401(27)(1) (‘[vjielating a formal order,
probation, consent agreement or stipulation issued or entered into by the board or its

executive director under this chapter”) and 32-1451.

DATED: 226/48
JOHN & NEWIS, M.D. a |



FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Board is the duly constituted authority for the regulation and control of
the practice of allopathic medicine in the State of Arizona.

2. Respondent is the holder of license number 11783 for the practice of
allopathic medicine in the State of Arizona.

3. The Board initiated case number MD-07-1024A after receiving a complaint
regarding Respondent's care and treatment of a fifty-two year-old male patient (“GP”).

4. On January 16, 2007 at 3:54 a.m., GP presented to the emergency
department (ED) with flank pain and hypotension. GP had high blood pressure and took
additional blood pressure medication the night before as he previously had without
adverse effects. GP reported that he had been suffering from a cough and cold for two
weeks. GP’s blood pressure was 77/45 and he was afebrile. At 5:00 a.m. Respondent
gave verbal orders to administer a 500 cc fluid bolus. However, when this did not correct
GP’s hypotension, Respondent ordered intravenous (IV) Dopamine (a pressor) at 6:17
a.m. In response to the Board's investigation, Respondent stated he saw GP at 5:00 a.m.
However, there was no documentation that Respondent presented to see GP until 7:25
a.m.

5. At 7:00 a.m., the treating nurse noted that the Dopamine was at its maximal
rate and contacted Respondent. At 7:25 a.m., Respondent presented to GP’s room fo
evaluate him. Respondent performed a history and physical examination that included
checking GP’s blood pressure, respiratory rate and pulse. Respondent's assessment was
septic shock and he ordered an additional IV pressor, one liter of fluid bolus and a dose of
Timentin (an antibiotic). At 8:00 a.m., Respondent ordered a third liter of bolus fluid and

consultations with a surgeon and critical care physician. At 8:27 a.m., the surgeon and


BRB Sera anagraxs2e


critical care physician arrived for consultation. The critical care physician assumed care
and treatment of GP.

6. GP’s condition continued to deteriorate and he remained in the ED until 4:44
p.m., when he was transferred to the intensive care unit. Subsequently, GP became
unresponsive and was pronounced dead at 5:32 p.m. The cause of death was determined
to be cardiopulmonary arrest and sepsis. GP’s blood cultures were positive for gram
positive cocci.

7. The standard of care in emergency medicine for a patient presenting with
hypotension requires an emergency physician to conduct an immediate, appropriate
history and physical examination.

8. Respondent deviated from the standard of care because he did not he did
not present to evaluate GP until over three hours after he presented to the ED.

9. The standard of care for a patient presenting with hypotension requires an
immediate consideration of, evaluation for and treatment of emergent, life threatening
causes of hypotension.

10. Respondent deviated from the standard of care because he did not
immediately consider, evaluate and treat the emergent, life threatening causes of GP’s
hypotension.

41. The standard of care in emergency medicine for a patient presenting with
hypotension requires an emergency physician to immediately attempt to correct the
hypotension.

12. Respondent deviated from the standard of care because he did not
immediately attempt to correct GP’s hypotension.

43. The standard of care for septic shock requires immediate, empiric antibiotic

therapy.



44. Respondent deviated from the standard of care: because he did not
immediately begin administration of empiric antibiotic therapy.

15. Respondenit’s delay in diagnosis and treatment of GP could have led to
complications and his death. )

16. A physician is required to maintain adequate legible medical records
containing, at a minimum, sufficient information to identify the patient, support the
diagnosis, justify the treatment, accurately document the results, indicate advice and
cautionary wamings provided to the patient and provide sufficient information for another
practitioner to assume continuity of the patient's care at any point in the course of
treatment. A.R.S. § 32-1401(2).

17. Respondent's records were inadequate because there was no
documentation that Respondent immediately presented to consider, evaluate, and treat

GP’s causes of hypotension.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
4. The Board possesses jurisdiction over the subject matter hereof and over
Respondent.
2. The conduct and circumstances described above constitute unprofessional

conduct pursuant to A.R.S. § 32-1401 (27)(e) (‘ffailing or refusing to maintain adequate
records on a patient.”} and A.R.S. § 32-1401(27)(q) (‘[alny conduct or practice that is or
might be harmful or dangerous to the health of the patient or the public.”).
ORDER
IT iS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
4. Respondent is issued a Letter of Reprimand for a delay in consideration of,
evaluation for, and treatment of the emergent, life threatening causes of hypotension and

for failure to maintain adequate medical records.

—_



2. This Order is the final disposition of case number MD-07-1024A.

DATED AND EFFECTIVE this A“ _ day o( thee. 2008.

unl MUU},

R tity ARIZONA MEDICAL BOARD
(SEAL) RSS MEDICA, i | 4
sar err) By y Vz
di Lisa S. Wynn
ORIGINAL of the , Pons
this At 7 Gp

Executive Director
Arizona Medical Board
9545 E. Doubletree Ranch Road
Scottsdale, AZ 85258

EXECUTED COPY. of the foregoing mailed
thisZiday , 2008 to:

John D. Lewis, M.D.
Address of Record

1 PGzegfO

vestigational Review ~~

SS
we

qY
me)
oe

aU


“ewes

4)
SB “ny

oy,
ay

