OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

Ceara neune

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
ory

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 19-21834-1

Against: FILED

TERRANCE J, KWIATKOWSKL, M.D, MAR - 8 2021
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
‘The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada Stato Board of Medical Exeminers
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for
the IC, and Terrance J. Kwiatkowski, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician In Nevada, assisted
by his attorney, Robert C. MeBride, Esq. and Heather 8. Hall, Esq. of the law firm-of McBride
Hall, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:
4. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active-restricted status by the
Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Aci). His license was originally
issued on August 27, 2001 (License No. 9962).

2 OnFebruary 12, 2021, in Case No. 19-21834-1, the IC filed a formal First Amended
‘Complaint (Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically,
the Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of Practice
Established by Regulation (Count D, one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(e), Failure to Maintain
Timely, Legible, Accurate and Complete Medical Records.

' All agreomonts and admissions made by Respondent aro solely for Final disposition of these matters and
‘any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil ikigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are nnt intended or made for any other use, such as In the context of another
‘state or federal government regulaiory agency proceeding, sia or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any crodentidling or privileges matter,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada Ste Board of Medical Beanies

$680 Gateway Deve
‘Reno, Nevada 952

7) 8-259


uw
W7

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4, Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and hes had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding these administrative matters, and
jc his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint, Specifically, Respondent has

certain rights in these administrative matters as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada!
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which ts contained in
NNRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
RS Chapter 2338. ‘These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the:
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at hls own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, ifthe decision is adverse to him,

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between:
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board's approval of this Agreement, but that the|
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
ut

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Sete Board of Medien Bzxmlacrs

"9600 Garay Drive

Rene, Nevada 521

(5) 63.2559

cer auneeon


a


B. ‘TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
‘conditions:

1, Jurisdletion. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel, Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
‘matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel,

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with these administrative matters. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently
waives all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the
Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him
cor that may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the
Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations
‘set forth in the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the
Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint es set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

As of the time of entering
{nto this Settlement Agreement, the allegetions of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Ste Board of Medical Eanes

{9680 Gateway Dive

Reno Nevada 69521

Ci) 2

vera wnen

that Respondent is not admitting that the 1C’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have
merit and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts that if these matters were to proceed to he:

8, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counvelaim alleged in the Complaint,

bbut for the purposes of resolving these matters and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the
presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this
Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending agains
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent!
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Prectice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a Respondent admits to one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of
Standards of Practice Established by Regulation (Count 2 and one (1) violation of
NRS 630,3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Timely, Legible, Accurate and Complete Medical Records
(Count 1).

b. Respondent shall pay a fine of five hundred dotlars ($$00,00) within sixty
(60) days of the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

cc. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
‘and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board's acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being four thousand elght hundred
and thirty dollars and ten cents ($4,830.10) not including any costs that may be necessary to|
finalize this Agreement.

4. ‘This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank,

Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f. All claims and allegations arising from Board Investigative|
Case No. 14-15480 shall be dismissed with prejudice.
uw

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘evade Sate Board of Medical ramioers

"$00 Gatcwny Deve

Rea, Neves 9521

cmasase

cer ae enun


6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
‘are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to|
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against|
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
‘or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement The IC and counsel for the JC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Bosrd in
resolution of the Complaint at an upcoming Board meeting at the Board’s earliest convenience,
and Respondent hereby waives notice of the same, whether under the United States Constitution,
the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, or otherwise, In the!
course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the 1C
may communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board |
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts end communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all informstion of every nature whatsoever related to these matters. ‘The IC end its counsel agree!
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may eppear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
TC or the IC's counsel.
ms

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Newada Sate Dour of Medical Bemmiacee

Revo, Nevada B52.

(7s ees2559

we earawe

u

BB

SRRB

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
‘an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and any and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board, In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agrooment
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board's ecceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shell not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bed faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
‘Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is:
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
Jurisdiction and agree that jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of
Nevads, Washoe County.

12, Attorneys’ Rees and Costs, The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13, Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
‘or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the JC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice!
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing on revocation, which will be duly
noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines,
costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Bxaninens

‘9600 Gateway Deire

Rene, Nevada 89521

(C73) 688-2559

coer Aan eon

13,

a

g


ar

may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)().

Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil

efforts available.

ind administrative collection|

DATED viet ty of FR. 2021,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

» _ Meck

Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this 7” ay of Lebeney _, 2021.

MCBRIDE HALL Fuser
By: ZZ &
Robert. McBride, Esq.
Heather S. Hall, Esq.
Attorneys for Respondent

DATED this AY ay of Gebroneae 2021.

‘ferrance J. Kwiatkowski, MLD, Respondent

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2859

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

v1

a


may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection
efforts available.

DATED this___day of. 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:
Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this day of 2021.
MCBRIDE HALL

By: =
Robert C. McBride, Esq.
Heather S. Hall, Esq.
Attorneys for Respondent

DATED this _/ 4 day of Cebrmaysen,

~ ZF Kwiatkowski, Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521

(C75) 688-2559

u
13,


ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Amended Settlement Agreement
in Case No. 19-21834-1 is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners on the 5" day of March, 2021, with the final total amount of costs due of four thousand
eight hundred thirty dollars and ten cents ($4,830.10).

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

