OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-10474-1

Complaint Against FILE D
ERIC M. MATH, M.D., MAR - 9 2021
Respondent. NEVADA STATE

ponden MEDJORL EXAPINE RS
COMPLAINT Bys

The Investigative Committee' (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Eric M. Math, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges
and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent is a physician and his license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada
(License No. 8878) is currently inactive. He was initially licensed by the Board on
December 18, 1998.

A. Respondent’s Criminal Conduct

2. Pursuant to a Plea Agreement Under Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(A) and (B) filed on
March 2, 2020 (hereinafter, the “Plea Agreement”), a true and correct copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit 1 and incorporated herein by this reference, in the U.S. District Court for the
State of Nevada, in Criminal Case No. 3:19-cr-00026-LRJ-WGC, entitled “United States of
America v. Eric Math” (hereinafter, the “Federal Case”), Respondent knowingly and voluntarily
pleaded guilty to one count of Conspiracy to Distribute a Controlled Substance, in violation of 21

U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), 841(b)(1)(C), and 846.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time the filing of this
Complaint was approved, was composed of Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Ms. April Mastroluca, and Victor M.
Muro, M.D., Chairman.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

N



3. Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3559(a)(3), violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1),
841(b)(1)(C), and 846, as alleged in Count One of the Indictment, constitutes a Class C felony.
4. Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, Respondent admitted the following:

a. Count One: The elements of Conspiracy to Distribute a Controlled Substance in

violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), 841(b)(1)(C), and 846 are:
i. First, beginning at a time unknown but not later than on or about October
21, 2018, and continuing to on or about May 23, 2019, there was an
agreement between two or more persons to unlawfully possess with intent
to distribute oxycodone, a schedule II controlled substance; and
ii. Second, the Respondent joined in the agreement knowing of its purpose and
intending to help accomplish that purpose.
5. Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, Respondent admitted and declared under penalty
of perjury that the facts set forth below are true and correct:

a. Between about October 21, 2018, and continuing to on or about May 23, 2019,
Respondent entered into an agreement with Myron Motley, Joe Jeannette, and
others. They agreed to distribute controlled substances, specifically oxycodone and
hydrocodone. Respondent would write prescriptions to his co-conspirators not for
a legitimate medical purpose and not in the usual course of professional practice.
They would fill the prescriptions and give some of the pills to Motley for further
sales. Sometimes Respondent would be paid in cash for writing the prescriptions
and sometimes Respondent would write prescriptions for himself and have the co-
conspirator fill the prescription and Respondent would receive the pills.

b. Respondent joined in the agreement knowing its purpose was unlawful and with
the intent to help accomplish that purpose.

c. All of the foregoing occurred in the State and Federal District of Nevada.

6. Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, Respondent also admitted that he is, in fact, guilty
of the offense to which Respondent agreed to plead guilty, and he acknowledges that if he elected

to go to trial instead of pleading guilty, the United States could prove his guilt beyond a

2of7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


reasonable doubt. Respondent further acknowledges that his admissions and declarations of fact
set forth in the Plea Agreement satisfy every element of the charged offense.
COUNTI
NRS 630.306(1)(c) (Illegal Distribution of Controlled Substances)

7. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

8. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(c), distribution, including administering, dispensing or
prescribing, of any controlled substance to others except as authorized by law is grounds for
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
knowingly and intentionally distributed controlled substances, oxycodone and hydrocodone,
outside the usual course of his professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose, in
violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), 841(b)(1)(C) and 846.

10. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.306(1)(p) (Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct)

11. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

12. Engaging in any act that is unsafe or unprofessional conduct in accordance with
regulations adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to
NRS 630.306(1)(p).

13. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
knowingly and intentionally dispensed controlled substances, oxycodone and hydrocodone,
outside the usual course of his professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose.

14. Respondent’s conduct was unsafe and unprofessional.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


COUNT III
NRS 630.301(9) (Disreputable Conduct)

16. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

17. Conduct that brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline
pursuant to NRS 630.301(9), including, without limitation, conduct that violates any provision of
a code of ethics adopted by the Board by regulation based on a national code of ethics.

18. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
conduct brings the medical profession into disrepute.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

40f7

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

rt

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this ia (s day of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVA TATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

id K. White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
mey for the Investigative Committee

5S of 7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

"1

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
28S.
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Victor M. Muro, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this 7 day of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

UM merirs

Victor M. Muro, M.D., Chairman


EXHIBIT 1

Tof7

ee)

6ss7-889 (SLL)
T2568 ePEADN] ‘OUDY
sau Aemaes 0096
suoulUrexg [E12 JO PlvOg D18Ig EPEAIN|

TASNNOOD TVYANYDS AHL JO AOTAO

a

a

a








Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 1 of 14

x
—. FILED
entero = —— Seen
NICHOLAS A. TRUTANICH COUNSEUIPARTIES OF RECORD
United States Attorney
District of Nevada
Nevada Bar Number 13644 MAR - 2 2020
ROBERT A. KNIEF
Assistant United States Attorney CLERK US DISTRICT COURT
501 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Suite 1100 By: DISTRICT OF NEVADA
Las Vegas, Nevada 89101 a <== DEPUTY
Telephone: (702) 388-6336
Email: Robert.Knief@usdoj.gov
Counsel for Plaintiff United States
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, No. 3:19-cr-0026-LRH-WGC
Plaintiff,
Plea Agreement Pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P.
vy. 11(c)(1)(A) and (B)
ERIC MATH,
Defendant.

This plea agreement between Eric Math (“defendant”) and the United States Attorney’s
Office for the District of Nevada (the “USAO”) sets forth the parties’ agreement regarding the
criminal charges referenced herein and the applicable sentences, in the above-captioned case.
This agreement binds only defendant and the USAO and does not bind the district court, the
U.S. Probation Office, or any other federal, state, local, or foreign prosecuting, enforcement,
administrative, or regulatory authorities. This agreement does not prohibit the USAO or any
agency or third party from seeking any other civil or administrative remedies, including civil
forfeiture in rem, directly or indirectly against defendant or defendant's property.

This agreement becomes effective upon signature by defendant, defendant's counsel, and

an Assistant United States Attorney


Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 2 of 14

I. DEFENDANT’S OBLIGATIONS
1 Defendant agrees to:

a. At the earliest opportunity requested by the USAO and provided by the
district court, appear and plead guilty to Count | of the indictment in this case, which charges
defendant with conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance — hydrocodone, and oxycodone in
violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a(1), 841(6)(1)(C), and 846 (Count Two);

db. Stipulate to the facts agreed to in this agreement;

c. Abide by all agreements regarding sentencing contained in this agreement;

d. Not seek to withdraw defendant'’s guilty plea once it is entered;

e. Appear for all court appearances, surrender as ordered for service of
sentence, obey all conditions of any bond, and obey any other ongoing court order in this matter;

f. Not commit any federal, state, or local crime;

g Be truthful at all times with the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Offices
and the Court;

Il. THE USAO’S OBLIGATIONS
2. The USAO agrees to:

a. Stipulate to facts agreed to in this agreement;

db. Abide by all agreements regarding sentencing contained in this agreement;

c At sentencing, provided that defendant demonstrates an acceptance of
responsibility for the offense up to and including the time of sentencing, recommend a two-level
reduction in the applicable sentencing guidelines offense level, pursuant to USSG § 3E1.1, and
move for an additional one-level reduction if available under that section;

d. At sentencing, move to dismiss the remaining counts of the indictment as

against defendant. Defendant agrees, however, that the district court may consider any dismissed



Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 3 of 14

charges in determining the applicable sentencing guidelines range, the propriety and extent of
any departure from that range, and the sentence to be imposed.
Il. ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE

3. Count One: The elements of conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance -
hydrocodone, and oxycodone in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), 841(b)(1)(C), and 846 are as
follows:

First: Beginning at a time unknown, but not later than on or about October 21,

2018, and continuing to on or about May 23, 2019, there was an agreement
between two or more persons to unlawfully possess with intent to distribute
oxycodone, a schedule II controlled substance; and

Second: The defendant joined in the agreement knowing of its purpose and

intending to help accomplish that purpose.
Ninth Circuit Model Criminal Jury Instr. 9.19.
IV. CONSEQUENCES OF CONVICTION

4. Maximum Statutory Penalties:

Defendant understands that the statutory maximum sentence the district court can
impose for a violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), 841(6)(1)(C), and 846 as charged in Count 1, is:
20 years imprisonment; a minimum of five years and up to lifetime supervised release a fine of
$250,000 or twice the gross gain or gross loss resulting from the offense, whichever is greatest;
and a mandatory special assessment of #$100.

5. Defendant understands that under 21 U.S.C. § 862a, defendant will not be eligible
for assistance under state programs funded under the Social Security Act or Federal Food Stamp
Act or for federal food stamp program benefits, and that any such benefits or assistance received

by defendant's family members will be reduced to reflect defendant's ineligibility.



Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 4 of 14

6. Parole Abolished: Defendant acknowledges that defendant's prison sentence
cannot be shortened by early release on parole because parole has been abolished.

7. Supervised Release: Defendant understands that supervised release is a period of
time following imprisonment during which defendant will be subject to various restrictions and
tequirements. Defendant understands that if defendant violates one or more of the conditions of
any supervised release imposed, defendant may be returned to prison for all or part of the term of
supervised release authorized by statute for the offense that resulted in the term of supervised
release.

8. Factors under 18 U.S.C. § 3553: Defendant understands that the district court
must consider the factors set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) in determining defendant’s sentence.
However, the statutory maximum sentence limits the district court’s discretion in determining
defendant’s sentence.

9. Potential Collateral Consequences of Conviction: Defendant understands that, by
pleading guilty, defendant may be giving up valuable government benefits and valuable civic
rights, such as the right to vote, the right to possess a firearm, the right to hold office, and the
right to serve on a jury. Defendant understands that once the district court accepts defendant's
guilty plea, it will be a federal felony for defendant to possess a firearm or ammunition.
Defendant understands that the conviction in this case may also subject defendant to various
other collateral consequences, including but not limited to revocation of probation, parole, or
supervised release in another case and suspension or revocation of a professional license.
Defendant understands that unanticipated collateral consequences will not serve as grounds to
withdraw defendant’s guilty plea.

10. Potential Removal/Deportation Consequences of Conviction: Defendant

understands that, if defendant is not a United States citizen, the felony conviction in this case



Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 5 of 14

may subject defendant to removal, also known as deportation, which may, under some
circumstances, be mandatory; denial of citizenship; and denial of admission to the United States
in the future. The district court cannot, and defendant's attorney also may not be able to, advise
defendant fully regarding the immigration consequences of the felony conviction in this case.
Defendant understands that unexpected immigration consequences will not serve as grounds to
withdraw defendant’s guilty plea.
V. FACTUAL BASIS
11. Defendant admits that defendant is, in fact, guilty of the offense to which

defendant is agreeing to plead guilty. Defendant acknowledges that if defendant elected to go to

trial instead of pleading guilty, the USAO could prove defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. Defendant further acknowledges that defendant’s admissions and declarations of fact set
forth below satisfy every element of the charged offense. Defendant waives any potential future
claim that the facts defendant admitted below are insufficient to satisfy the elements of the
charged offense. Defendant admits and declares under penalty of perjury that the facts set forth
below are true and correct:

Between about October 21, 2018, and continuing to on or about May 23, 2019, I entered
into an agreement with Myron Motley, Joe Jeannette, and others. We agreed to distribute
controlled substances, specifically oxycodone and hydrocodone. I would write prescriptions to
my co-conspirators not for a legitimate medical purpose and not in the usual course of
professional practice. They would fill the prescriptions and give some of this pills to Motley for
further sales. Sometimes I would be paid in cash for writing the prescriptions and sometimes I
would write prescriptions for myself and have the co-conspirator fill the prescription and I would

recive the pills.


Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 6 of 14

I joined in the agreement knowing its purpose was unlawful and with the intent to help

accomplish that purpose. This actiovity ocurred in the State and Federal District of Nevada.
VI. SENTENCING FACTORS

12. Discretionary Nature of Sentencing Guidelines: Defendant understands that in
determining defendant’s sentence, the district court is required to calculate the applicable
sentencing guidelines range and to consider that range, possible departures under the sentencing
guidelines, and the other sentencing factors set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a). Defendant
understands that the sentencing guidelines are advisory only, that defendant cannot have any
expectation of receiving a sentence within the calculated sentencing guidelines range, and that
after considering the sentencing guidelines and the other § 3553(a) factors, the district court will
be free to exercise its discretion to impose any sentence it finds appropriate.

13. Offense Level Calculations: The parties jointly agree and stipulate that, in
calculating Defendant's advisory guidelines sentencing range, the Court should use the following

base offense level and adjustments; acknowledge that these stipulations do not bind the district

court:
Base Offense Level - USSG § 2D1.1(c){5): 30
Abuse of Trust - USSG § 3B1.3: +2
Adjusted Offense Level: 32
14. Agreement with Respect to Some Safety Valve Requirements: Defendant and the
USAO agree that:
a. Defendant did not use violence or credible threats of violence or possess a

firearm or other dangerous weapon (or induce another participant to do so) in connection with
the offense charged in count 1;


Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 7 of 14

db. The offense charged in count 1 did not result in death or serious bodily
injury to any person; and

c. Defendant was not an organizer, leader, manager, or supervisor of others in
the offense charged in count 1 and was not engaged in a continuing criminal enterprise.

d. Defendant and the USAO have made no agreement whether defendant
qualifies for safety-valve relief from the statutory minimum sentence, and Defendant agrees that,
if the district court determines he does not qualify, that determination will not serve as grounds
to withdraw defendant’s guilty plea.

15. Reduction for Acceptance of Responsibility: Under USSG § 3E1.1(a), the USAO
will recommend that defendant receive a two-level downward adjustment for acceptance of
responsibility unless defendant (a) fails to truthfully admit facts establishing a factual basis for the
guilty plea when defendant enters the plea; (b) fails to truthfully admit facts establishing the
amount of restitution owed when defendant enters the guilty plea; (c) fails to truthfully admit
facts establishing the forfeiture allegations when defendant enters the guilty plea; (d) provides
false or misleading information to the USAO, the Court, Pretrial Services, or the Probation
Office; (e) denies involvement in the offense or provides conflicting statements regarding
defendant’s involvement or falsely denies or frivolously contests conduct relevant to the offense;
(f) attempts to withdraw defendant's guilty plea; (g) commits or attempts to commit any crime;
(h) fails to appear in court; or (i) violates the conditions of pretrial release.

Under USSG § 3E1.1(0), if the district court determines that defendant's total offense
level before operation of § 3E1.1(a) is 16 or higher, and if the USAO recommends a two-level
downward adjustment pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the USAO will move for an

additional one-level downward adjustment for acceptance of responsibility before sentencing


Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 8 of 14

because defendant communicated defendant's decision to plead guilty in a timely manner that
enabled the USAO to avoid preparing for trial and to efficiently allocate its resources.

16. Criminal History Category. Defendant acknowledges that the district court may
base defendant’s sentence in part on defendant’s criminal record or criminal history. The district
court will determine defendant’s criminal history category under the sentencing guidelines.

17. Additional Sentencing Information: The stipulated sentencing guidelines
calculations are based on information now known to the parties. Defendant understands that
both defendant and the USAO are free to (a) supplement the facts in this agreement by supplying
relevant information to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Offices and the district court
regarding the nature, scope, and extent of defendant’s criminal conduct and any aggravating or
mitigating facts or circumstances; and (b) correct any and all factual misstatements relating to the
district court’s sentencing guidelines calculations and determination of sentence. While this
paragraph permits both the USAO and defendant to submit full and complete factual
information to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Offices and the district court, even if that
factual information may be viewed as inconsistent with the facts agreed to in this agreement, this
paragraph does not affect defendant’s and the USAO’s obligations not to contest the facts agreed
to in this agreement. Good faith efforts to provide truthful information or to correct factual
misstatements shall not be grounds for defendant to withdraw defendant’s guilty plea.

Defendant acknowledges that the U.S. Probation Office may calculate the sentencing
guidelines differently and may rely on additional information it obtains through its investigation.
Defendant also acknowledges that the district court may rely on this and other additional
information as it calculates the sentencing guidelines range and makes other sentencing
determinations, and the district court’s reliance on such information shall not be grounds for

defendant to withdraw defendant's guilty plea.


Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 9 of 14

VII. POSITIONS REGARDING SENTENCING

18. | The USAO will recommend that the district court sentence defendant at the low
end of the advisory guideline range as determined by the district court. Defendant may argue
for a downward variance pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Defendant acknowledges that the
district court does not have to follow the recommendation of either party.

19. Notwithstanding its agreement to recommend a sentence as described above, the
USAO reserves its right to defend any lawfully imposed sentence on appeal or in any post-
conviction litigation.

20. If defendant commits any act that results in the Court finding that defendant is
not entitled to a downward adjustment for acceptance of responsibility, the USAO is entitled to
argue for any sentence it deems appropriate under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a). In any such event,
Defendant remains bound by the provisions of this agreement and shall not have the right to
withdraw defendant's guilty plea.

VIII. WAIVER OF CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS

21. Defendant understands that by pleading guilty, defendant gives up the following
rights:

a. The right to persist in a plea of not guilty;

b. The right to a speedy and public trial by jury;

c The right to be represented by counsel—and if necessary have the court
appoint counsel—at trial. Defendant understands, however, that, defendant retains the right to
be represented by counsel—and if necessary have the court appoint counsel—at every other stage
of the proceeding;

d. The right to be presumed innocent and to have the burden of proof placed

on the USAO to prove defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt;




Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 10 of 14

e. The right to confront and cross-examine witnesses against defendant;

f. The right to testify and to present evidence in opposition to the charges,
including the right to compel the attendance of witnesses to testify;

ge The right not to be compelled to testify, and, if defendant chose not to
testify or present evidence, to have that choice not be used against defendant; and

h. The right to pursue any affirmative defenses, Fourth Amendment or Fifth

Amendment claims, and any other pretrial motions that have been filed or could be filed.
IX. WAIVER OF APPELLATE RIGHTS
22. Waiver of Appellate Rights. Defendant knowingly and expressly waives: (a) the
right to appeal any sentence imposed within or below the applicable Sentencing Guideline range

as determined by the district court; (b) the right to appeal the manner in which the district court

determined that sentence on the grounds set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3742.

23. Defendant reserves only the right to appeal any portion of the sentence that is an
upward departure or variance from the applicable Sentencing Guideline range as determined by
the district court.

24. Waiver of Post-Conviction Rights. Defendant also knowingly and expressly
waives all collateral challenges, including any claims under 28 U.S.C. § 2255, to defendant’s
conviction, sentence, and the procedure by which the district court adjudicated guilt and
imposed sentence, except non-waivable claims of ineffective assistance of counsel.

25. Preservation of Evidence: Defendant acknowledges that the USAO and the
agencies investigating this case are not obligated or required to preserve any evidence obtained in

the investigation of this case.



Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 11 of 14

X. RESULT OF WITHDRAWAL OF GUILTY PLEA
OR VACATUR/REVERSAL/SET-ASIDE OF CONVICTIONS

26. Consequence of withdrawal of guilty plea: Defendant agrees that if, after entering
a guilty plea pursuant to this agreement, defendant seeks to withdraw and succeeds in
withdrawing defendant's guilty plea on any basis other than a claim and finding that entry into
this agreement was involuntary, then the USAO will be relieved of all of its obligations under
this agreement.

27. | Consequence of vacatur, reversal, or set-aside: Defendant agrees that if
defendant's conviction is vacated, reversed, or set aside, both the USAO and defendant will be
released from all their obligations under this agreement, except that, should the USAO choose to
pursue any charge that was either dismissed or not filed as a result of this agreement, then (i) any
applicable statute of limitations will be tolled between the date of defendant’s signing of this
agreement and the filing commencing any such action; and (ii) defendant waives and gives up all
defenses based on the statute of limitations, any claim of pre-indictment delay, or any speedy
trial claim with respect to any such action, except to the extent that such defenses existed as of
the date of defendant's signing this agreement.

XII. BREACH OF AGREEMENT

28. Defendant agrees that if, at any time after this agreement becomes effective,
defendant knowingly violates or fails to perform any of defendant's obligations under this
agreement (“a breach”), the USAO may declare this agreement breached. All of defendant’s
obligations are material, a single breach of this agreement is sufficient for the USAO to declare a
breach, and defendant shall not be deemed to have cured a breach without the express agreement
of the USAO in writing. If the USAO declares this agreement breached, and the district court

fins such a breach to have occurred, then: (a) if defendant has previously entered a guilty plea






(Case 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 12 of 14

pursuant to this agreement, defendant will remain bound by the provisions of this agreement and
will not be able to withdraw the guilty plea, and (b) the USAO will be relieved of all its

obligations under this agreement.

XII. COURT AND UNITED STATES PROBATION
AND PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICE NOT PARTIES.

29. Defendant understands that the Court and the U.S. Probation and Pretrial
Services Office are not parties to this agreement and need not accept any of the USAO’s
sentencing recommendations or the parties’ agreements to facts or sentencing factors.

30. | Defendant understands that both defendant and the USAO are free to argue on
appeal and collateral review that the district court's sentencing guidelines calculations and the
sentence it chooses to impose are not error.

31. Defendant understands that even if the district court ignores any sentencing
recommendation, finds facts or reaches conclusions different from those agreed to by the parties,
or imposes any sentence up to the maximum established by statute, defendant cannot, for that
reason, withdraw defendant’s guilty plea, and defendant will remain bound to fulfill all
defendant’s obligations under this agreement. Defendant understands that no one—not the
prosecutor, defendant’s attorney, or the Court—can make a binding prediction or promise
regarding the sentence defendant will receive, except that it will be within the statutory
maximum.

XIV. ADDITIONAL ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

32. The Defendant acknowledges that:

a. Defendant read this agreement and defendant understands its terms and

conditions,



ase 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 13 of 14

b. Defendant had adequate time to discuss this case, the evidence, and this
agreement with defendant's attorney.

c. Defendant carefully and thoroughly discussed all terms of this agreement
with defendant's attorney.

d. Defendant understands the terms of this agreement and voluntarily agrees
to those terms.

e, Defendant has discussed with defendant’s attorney the following: the
evidence; defendant's rights; possible pretrial motions that might be filed; possible defenses that
might be asserted either prior to or at trial; the sentencing factors set forth in 18 U.S.C. 3553(a);
the relevant sentencing guidelines provisions; and consequences of entering into this agreement.

f. The representations contained in this agreement are true and correct,
including the factual basis for defendant’s offense set forth in this agreement.

8 Defendant was not under the influence of any alcohol, drug, or medicine
that would impair defendant's ability to understand the agreement when defendant considered
signing this agreement and when defendant signed it.

33. Defendant understands that defendant alone decides whether to plead guilty or go
to trial, and acknowledges that defendant has decided to enter defendant's guilty plea knowing of
the charges brought against defendant, defendant's possible defenses, and the benefits and
possible detriments of proceeding to trial.

34. | Defendant understands that no promises, understandings, or agreements other
than those set forth in this agreement have been made or implied by defendant, defendant's
attorney, or the USAO, and no additional promises, agreements, or conditions shall have any
force or effect unless set forth in writing and signed by all parties or confirmed on the record

before the district court.



ase 3:19-cr-00026-LRH-WGC Document 131 Filed 03/02/20 Page 14 of 14

35. Defendant acknowledges that defendant decided to plead guilty voluntarily and

that no one threatened, coerced, or forced defendant to enter into this agreement.

36. Defendant is satisfied with the representation of defendant's attorney, and

defendant is pleading guilty because defendant is guilty of the charges and chooses to take

advantage of the promises set forth in this agreement and for no other reason.

XV. PLEA AGREEMENT PART OF THE GUILTY PLEA HEARING

37. The parties agree that this agreement will be considered part of the record of

defendant’s guilty plea hearing as if the entire agreement had been read into the record of the

proceeding.
AGREED AND ACCEPTED

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY’S OFFICE
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA

NICHOLAS A. TRUTANICH

United Si Attorney
¢ ZA, L pow

3/2 [r0

ROBERT KNIEF Dat¢
Assistant aM

ERIC MATH Date” .
Defendant

iN

9-17-25

DAVID RLHOUSTON 7
Attomey for Defendant


Date

