

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KRKEKES
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-10144-1
Complaint Against: FI LE D
JOSETTE ELLEN SPOTTS, M.D., JUL 14 2021
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: ae

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the
IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Josette Ellen Spotts, M.D., (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. At all times relative to this Complaint, Respondent held an active license to practice
medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 6917), and originally licensed by the Board on
October 2, 1993.

2. Patient A* was a fifty-six (56) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

3. On September 27, 2016, Patient A underwent a diagnostic mammogram and
ultrasound, which revealed bilateral BI-RADS 4 breast masses. The radiologist recommended an
ultrasound guided breast biopsy.

4, On October 5, 2016, Patient A was referred to Respondent. Patient A had an

abnormal mammogram and breast ultrasound for which a biopsy was recommend. Respondent

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Mr. M. Neil
Duxbury, and Aury Nagy, M.D.

2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.



examined Patient A, and based upon her evaluation of the patient and review of previous
mammograms from 2016 and 2015, Respondent believed the patient’s findings were more
consistent with a heterogeneously dense breast described in the 2015 mammogram study instead
of the bilateral BI-RADS 4 breast masses indicated on the 2016 mammogram report. Following
Respondent’s review of the ultrasound report of both of Patient A’s breasts, it was her medical
opinion that the findings were consistent with benign fibrocystic changes in both breasts.
Respondent determined that the previously recommended biopsy by the radiologist was not
necessary. Specifically, Respondent’s records state “the findings are consistent with benign
fibrocystic changes bilaterally and the findings in the breast, seen by ultrasound, are, in my
opinion, not suspicious for malignancy, therefore biopsy is not recommended.”

5. On February 15, 2017, Patient A presented to Respondent and reported that since
her last visit on October 5, 2016, she felt a new mass on her right axilla. A biopsy was performed
on the breast tissues on both sides and the pathology report listed an invasive ductal carcinoma in
both breasts. When Patient A presented to Respondent to discuss the pathology results and
treatment options, Respondent ordered an MRI with and without contrast on both breasts.
Respondent did not note the inconsistent, discordant results of the right axillary biopsy and
characterized Patient A as a Stage 1 breast cancer patient. Respondent did not recognize that her
clinical exam of a firm right axillary lymph node, along with the biopsy result that did not reveal
any lymph node tissue within the biopsy specimen, which should have warranted further
evaluation by Respondent. Here, Respondent characterized Patient A as “Tle NO MX” and
documented that she was “lymph node negative” and based upon these two factors, Respondent
recommended that Patient A proceed with surgery instead of a less-invasive treatment of
neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Both factors were incorrect in Respondent’s diagnosis and treatment
plan and thus were in error.

6. On February 21, 2017, Patient A had the MRI on both breasts and the report from
the MRI stated the following: a) the right breast had several masses with susceptibility
characteristic of malignancy; b) the left breast had a mass most characteristic of malignancy.

Respondent did not have any further involvement in her care since Patient A did not return.


On February 27, 2021, Patient A Informed Respondent that she was no longer comfortable
continuing her care because Respondent did not conduct or order a biopsy of her breasts during
the October 5, 2016 visit because Respondent misdiagnosed her condition as benign. Patient A
was eventually diagnosed with Stage 3 breast cancer.
COUNT I
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

7. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

10. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
she provided medical services to Patient A by not recommending nor ordering a biopsy after the
October 5, 2016 mammogram findings. Additionally, she failed to diagnose Patient A’s clinical
presentation of breast cancer. The inaction of not ordering a biopsy was unreasonable. Respondent
made inappropriate recommendations regarding Patient A’s treatment and ultimately causing the
patient to make inappropriate and delayed decisions about her medical plan. Respondent acted
unreasonably with her care, skill and knowledge regarding her characterization of Patient A as
“Tle NO MX” and when she documented that Patient A she was “lymph node negative.” Based
upon these incorrect two factors, Respondent recommended that Patient A proceed with surgery
instead of a less-invasive treatment of neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

11. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.




COUNT I
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

12. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

13. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

14. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when she treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT Ill
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation)

16. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

17. Violation of a standard of practice adopted by the Board is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2).

18. | NAC 630.210 requires a physician to seek consultation with another provider of
health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation may enhance the
quality of medical services.

19. | Respondent failed to timely seek consultation with another care provider regarding
Patient A’s medical condition and treatment plan. Respondent should have consulted with an
appropriate care provider to address the proper treatment plan for Patient A based on the test
results provided by the 2016 mammogram. This consultation could have enhanced Patient A’s
treatment and eliminated delay of the diagnosis of breast cancer.

20. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.



WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation(s) of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
matter as outlined in NRS 622.400.

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 13" day of July, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

ROBERT G. KILROY, J.D.

Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 324-9349

Email: rkilroy@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
1 SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this * day of July, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Chairman of the Investigative Committee

