OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-10020-1

Complaint Against: F I LE D

MARK JASON ROSEN, M.D.,

JUL > 8 2021
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
By: MEQICAE “XAMINERS

rn Fa

Sa, ac an

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the
IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Mark Jason Rosen, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a Medical Doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 6850). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on July 31, 1993. Respondent’s specialty is Orthopedic Surgery
on the Board’s website.

2. On December 28, 2014, Patient A? presented to Summerlin Hospital with left hip
pain. Respondent confirmed the diagnosis of a left intertrochanteric hip fracture. Respondent,
without verifying for the correct screw, took a “right” femoral nail with a proximal interlocking
screw from the surgical staff. Respondent notes within Patient A’s medical records, the operative

note, that there was some difficulty with a distal placement of the intramedullary rod (the bow in the

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Rachakonda Prabhu, M.D., Ms. April
Mastrolucca, and Victor M. Muro, M.D.

> Patient A’s true identify is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation, which is served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



rod was of the “opposite” direction). Respondent further noted that the rod was placed into the
appropriate depth and the hip screws being placed without difficulty. Subsequently, Respondent
was informed that he was given the wrong (for a right hip) type of nail for Patient A’s procedure on
her left hip. Respondent noted that a fluoroscopy test confirmed that the left hip rod (upon which
the wrong nail was placed therein) was the appropriate depth. Respondent apprised the patient’s
family that there was a “right” nail placed within Patient A’s left hip. Respondent believed that
replacing the “right” nail with a “left” nail would be too difficult and advised that the current hip
should be allowed to heal. Respondent did not treat Patient A subsequently.
COUNT I
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

3, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

4. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

5. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

6. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
he provided medical services to Patients A, because Respondent failed to reasonably confirm the
correct “left” nail for placement in Patient A’s surgically repaired left hip.

7. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

8. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

9. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate

and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

10. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A failing to document his actions when he placed the wrong nail into
Patient A’s surgically repaired left hip.

11. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3, That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 8" day of July, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

i

ROBERT G. KILROY, J.D.

Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: rkilroy@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

By:

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

1 SS.
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Victor M. Muro, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 8" day of July, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

LAM Mew irs

VICTOR M. MURO, M.D., Chairman

By:

