OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 68-2589

THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Ae

Case No. 21-20969-1

FILED
MAR ~ 4 2021

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDYZAL EXAMI
By:

In the Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against

QUINTON KEITH THOMAS, M.D.,
Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) hereby issues this formal Complaint (Complaint) against Quinton Keith Thomas, M.D.
(Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a
reasonable basis to believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the
Medical Practice Act). The IC alleges the following facts:
L ’s Licensure

1, Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 10037), and has been
licensed by the Board since November 30, 2001. Respondent is a family practitioner. At all times
alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in an active status by the Board pursuant to the
provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

I fatement of Nevada Law Applicable to “Medical Spas” bal i irectors”

Part A — Delegating Practitioners, Medical Assistants, and the Unlicensed Practice of
Medi

2. Pursuant to NRS 630.400(1)(d), it is unlawful for any person to practice medicine
without being licensed by the Board under NRS Chapter 630, or by another medical professional

' ‘The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, atthe time the filing of this
Complaint was approved, was composed of Board members Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman, Mr, M. Neil
Duxbury and Aury Nagy, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2859

a

licensing board pursuant to chapters 631 to 637, inclusive, 639 or 640 of the NRS.

3. Pursuant to NRS 630.020, the “practice of medicine” means either (1) to diagnose,
treat, correct, prevent or prescribe for any human disease, ailment, injury, infirmity, deformity or
other condition, physical or mental, by any means or instrumentality, including, but not limited to,
the performance of an autopsy, or (2) to apply principles or techniques of medical science in the
diagnosis or the prevention of any such conditions, or (3) to perform any of the acts described in
subsections (1) and (2) by using equipment that transfers information concerning the medical
condition of the patient electronically, telephonically or by fiber optics. including, without
limitation, through telehealth, from within or outside this State or the United States, or (4) to offer,
undertake, attempt to do or hold oneself out as able to do any of the acts described in subsections
(1) and (2).

4. Pursuant to NRS 630.305(1)(e), a Nevada physician or physician assistant
(practitioner) may not aid, assist, employ or advise, directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to

engage in the practice of medicine contrary to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act, and

doing so is grounds for initiating disciplinary action or denying licensure.

oe Pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, the only means by which a practitioner may
lawfully aid, assist, employ or advise, directly or indirectly, an unlicensed person to engage in the
practice of medicine is by delegating specific tasks to an adequately supervised and trained
“medical assistant.” Pursuant to NRS 630.0129, a “medical assistant” means a person who (a)
performs clinical tasks under the supervision of a physician or physician assistant, and (b) does
not hold a license, certificate or registration issued by a professional licensing or regulatory board
in this State to perform such clinical tasks; and the term does not include a person who performs
only administrative, clerical, executive or other nonclinical tasks.

6. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(r), a practitioner must supervise adequately a medical
assistant, and failing to do so is grounds for initiating disciplinary action or denying licensure.

7. Pursuant to NAC 630.830, a delegating practitioner is professionally responsible
for the safety and performance of each task which is delegated to a medical assistant. Pursuant to

NAC 630.810(1), a delegating practitioner may not delegate tasks to a medical assistant unless: (a)

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

i

the delegating practitioner knows that the medical assistant possesses the knowledge, skill and
traming to perform the task safely and properly; (b) the medical assistant is not required to be
certified or licensed to perform that task, (c) the medical assistant is employed by the delegating
practitioner or the medical assistant and the delegating practitioner are employed by the same
employer; and (d) the employer of the medical assistance has complied with the requirements of
subsection 2 as they relate to the task.

8. Pursuant to NAC 630.820, a delegating practitioner may not supervise remotely a
medical assistant, except in a specific case of emergency in a rural area.”

9 Except as otherwise provided in NAC 630.820, pursuant to NAC 630.810, if a
medical assistant is delegated a task which involves an “invasive procedure,” the delegating
practitioner must be immediately available to exercise oversight in person while the medical
assistant performs the task.

10. The term “medical director” is not recognized or defined under any Nevada law or
regulation pertaining to the professional conduct and responsibility of licensed medical
professionals, and no law authorizes so-called “medical directors” to violate or circumvent the
aforementioned statutes and regulations of the Medical Practice Act.

Il. Accordingly, pursuant to NRS 630.400(1)(d), 630.305(1)(e), and 630.0129, and
NAC 630,800-840:

a. Ifa practitioner, whether by serving as a so-called “medical director” or by some
other relationship or circumstance, aids, assists, employs or advises, directly or
indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine, then the
practitioner may lawfully do so only by delegating tasks to an adequately
supervised, competent and properly tramed medical assistant.

2 Remote supervision of a medical assistant is prohibited unless. (a) the patient 1s located in a rural area, (b) the
delegating practitioner is physically located a significant distance from the location where the task is to be performed,
(©) the delegating practitioner determines that the exigent needs of the patient require immediate attention, (d) the
patient and the delegating practitioner previously established a practitioner-patient relationship; and (e) the delegating
practitioner is immediately available by telephone or other means of instant communication during the performance of
the task by the medical assistant. As used in NAC 630.820, “rural area” means any area in this State other than Carson
City or the City of Elko, Henderson, Reno, Sparks, Las Vegas or North Las Vegas.

2 The Medical Practice Act does not define “invasive procedure,” however, NAC 449 9733, pertaining to Medical

Facilities, defines “invasive procedure” as “a medical procedure involving entry into the human body by puncture or
incision or by insertion of an instrument.”

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

ear )e

u
13,

b.

If a practitioner, whether by serving as a so-called “medical director” or by some
other relationship or circumstance, aids, assists, employs or advises, directly or
indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine, and if the
practitioner has not done so by delegating specific tasks to an adequately
supervised, competent and properly trained medical assistant, then: (1) that
unlicensed person has violated NRS 630.400(1)(d), by practicing medicine without
a license; and (2) that practitioner has violated NRS 630.305(1)(e), and is subject to
discipline for aiding and assisting the unlicensed practice of medicine.

If a practitioner delegates a medical task to a medical assistant, whether by serving
as a so-called “medical director” or by some other relationship or circumstance,
then the practitioner remains professionally responsible for the safety and
performance of each task, and remains professionally responsible for ensuring that
the proper employment relationships exist, that the medical assistant is properly
knowledgeable, trained and skilled, that the medical assistant is adequately
supervised, that the practitioner is nearby to supervise the specific medical tasks
delegated, and, if it is an invasive medical task, then he or she must be immediately
available to exercise oversight in person while the medical assistant performs the
task.

If a practitioner delegates a medical task to a medical assistant, whether by serving
as a so-called “medical director” or by some other relationship or circumstance,
and if the practitioner fails to adequately supervise that medical assistant as
required under the circumstances, then that physician or physician assistant has
violated NRS 630.306(1)(r), and is subject to discipline for failing to adequately

supervise a medical assistant.

Part B — Cosmetologists, “Medical Spas” and “Medical Aestheticians,” and the

12.

Unlicensed Practice of Medicine

Pursuant to NRS 644A.030 a licensed “cosmetologist” is not authorized by such

license to practice medicine in any way. Rather, a licensed cosmetologist is authorized to perform

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

(75) 688-2589

sey

"1

only non-medical, cosmetological services, such as cleansing, stimulating or massaging the scalp
or cleansing or beautifying the hair by the use of cosmetic preparations, antiseptics, tonics, lotions
or creams, cutting, trimming or shaping the hair, removing hair by the use of depilatories, waxing,
tweezing or sugaring, except for the permanent removal of hair with needles, manicuring nails,
massaging the skin, giving facials, and other miscellaneous non-medical, cosmetological services.

13. Pursuant to NAC 644.A.790 a cosmetologist is further explicitly prohibited from
performing “invasive procedures,” which mean, for the purposes of professional licensing of
cosmetologists, “an act that affects the structure or function of the skin other than the uppermost
layers of the skin,” and which, for the sake of regulating the practice of cosmetologists, includes,
without limitation, (a) the application of electricity for the sole purpose of contracting a muscle,
(b) the application of a topical lotion, cream or other substance which affects anything other than
the uppermost layers of the skin, (c) the penetration of the skin by needles, and (d) the abrasion of
the skin below the uppermost layers of the skin.

14, There is no such license as “medical aesthetician” authorized by any Nevada law or
issued by any Nevada sanctioned professional licensing body. The term “medical aesthetician” is
not recognized or defined under any Nevada law or regulation pertaining to the professional
conduct and responsibility of licensed medical professionals, and no law authorizes
cosmetologists to violate or circumvent the aforementioned statutes and regulations of the Nevada
Medical Practice Act by referring to themselves as “medical aestheticians.”

15. Accordingly, a Nevada licensed cosmetologist may not practice medicine in any
way, or perform invasive medical procedures or medical services of any kind, except as a
“medical assistant” to a Nevada licensed medical professional, i.e., either as the medical assistant
of a Nevada licensed physician or physician assistant pursuant to NRS 630.0129, et. seq., and
NAC 630.800-830, as described above, or similarly as another type of professional “assistant,”
“hygienist,” “technician,” or other such designation, who is delegated tasks by and under the
direct supervision of another medical professional who is duly licensed pursuant to chapters 631

to 637, inclusive, 639 or 640 of NRS.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

2B

16. If a cosmetologist or so-called “medical aesthetician” practices or purports to
practice medicine in any way, unless he or she acts as a medical assistant and is delegated tasks
and is properly supervised by a professional medical practitioner, then he or she is violating

NRS 630.400(1)(d) by practicing medicine without a license.

Part C - Nevada Pharmacy Laws Regarding Dangerous Drugs and Hypodermic
Devices

17, NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) provides that engaging in conduct that violates a regulation
adopted by the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy (Pharmacy Board) is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action.

18. Pursuant to NRS 454.201, a “dangerous drug” is any drug, other than a controlled
substance, unsafe for self-medication or unsupervised use, and includes, the following: (1) any
drug which has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for general distribution and
bears the legend: ‘Rx Only’; (2) procaine hydrochloride with preservatives and stabilizers
(Gerovital H3) in injectable doses and amygdaline (laetrile) which have been licensed by the State
Board of Health for manufacture in this State but have not been approved as drugs by the Food
and Drug Administration; or (3) any drug which, pursuant to the Board’s regulations, may be sold
only by prescription because the Board has found those drugs to be dangerous to public health or
safety.

19. Pursuant to NRS 454.316 and NRS 454 321, it is unlawful to possess, dispense or
furnish a dangerous drug except when furnished to the person by a pharmacist pursuant to a legal
prescription or by a practitioner.

20. Pursuant to NRS 454.009, a “hypodermic” device is “any syringe, needle,
instrument, device or implement intended or capable of being adapted for the purpose of
administering drugs by subcutaneous, intramuscular or intravenous injection.”

21, Pursuant to NRS 454.510, it is unlawful for any person to have in his or her
possession or under his or her control any hypodermic device (that is restricted by federal law to
sale by or on the order of a physician), unless the person has acquired possession of such device in

accordance with the provisions of NRS 454.480 to 454.530, inclusive, that is, by sale from a

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

licensed pharmacist, on the prescription of a physician or other practitioner, which prescription is
filled as required by NRS 639.236, and may be refilled as authorized by the prescriber.

22. — Accordingly, pursuant to NRS 454.009, 454.201, 454.316, 454.321 and 454.510, a
Nevada licensed cosmetologist is not permitted by Nevada law to possess, control, access,
prescribe, administer, and/or dispense dangerous drugs or hypodermic devices, except as a
medical assistant under the direct supervision of a Nevada licensed physician, physician assistant,
or other licensed medical professional, and then only if otherwise permitted and in compliance
with laws of regulating pharmacies and pharmaceuticals.

23. NAC 639.742(1) provides that a practitioner who wishes to dispense controlled
substances or dangerous drugs must apply to the Pharmacy Board for a certificate of registration
to dispense controlled substances or dangerous drugs. A practitioner must submit a separate
application for each site of practice, including, without limitation, a tele-pharmacy, remote site or
satellite consultation site, from which the practitioner wishes to dispense controlled substances or
dangerous drugs.

24. | NAC 639.742(2) provides that if a facility from which the practitioner intends to
dispense dangerous drugs or controlled substances is not wholly owned and operated by the
practitioner, the owner or owners of the facility must also submit an application to the Pharmacy
Board for a license to do so.

25. NAC 639.742(3) provides, in pertinent part, that a dispensing practitioner and, if}
applicable, the owner or owners of the facility, shall ensure that:

(a) Alll drugs are ordered by the dispensing practitioner;

(b) All drugs are received and accounted for by the dispensing practitioner;

(c) All drugs are stored in a secure, locked room or cabinet to which the dispensing
practitioner has the only key or lock combination;

(d) Alll drugs are dispensed in accordance with NAC 639.745*

+ NAC 639.745 Duties of certain practitioners concerning dispensing of controlled substances and dangerous drugs.
(NRS 639.070, 639.0727)

1. Each practitioner who is registered with the Board to dispense controlled substances and dangerous drugs,
including, without limitation, a dispensing practitioner, and who dispenses such products for use by the practitioner's
patients outside his or her presence shall


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
19600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2589


(e) No prescription is dispensed to a patient unless the dispensing practitioner is on-
site at the facility;

(f) All drugs are dispensed only to the patient personally at the facility;

(g) The price of each drug dispensed to a patient is separately itemized on any bill
or statement provided to the patient.

(h) All drugs are dispensed only for medically necessary purposes and according to
prevailing standards of care for practitioners practicing in the specialty claimed or
practiced by the dispensing practitioner; and

(i) The certificate for each dispensing technician employed at the facility is

displayed in the room or cabinet in which drugs are stored.

(a) Keep complete, accurate and readily retrievable records of each controlled substance and dangerous drug
purchased and dispensed. The record for each such product dispensed to a patient must include:

(1) The name of the patient and, if not readily available from the practitioner's records, the patient's address;
(2) The name, strength and quantity of the prescribed controlled substance or dangerous drug,

(3) The directions for use;

(4) The date the prescription was issued; and

(5) A unique identifying number.

(b) Maintain a separate file for the records conceming the purchase of each controlled substance listed in schedule
and a separate file for the records concerning the dispensing of each controlled substance listed in schedule II Each
prescription for a controlled substance or dangerous drug must be maintained in a separate file pursuant to the
requirements set forth in NAC 453.480.

(©) Keep all controlled substances and dangerous drugs in a locked storage area. Access to the storage area must be
restricted to the persons described in NRS 453.375.

(@ Ensure that each package or container, in which a controlled substance is dispensed, except samples in the
manufacturer's packages, is clearly labeled pursuant to the requirements set forth in NRS 639.2801.

(€) Ensure that the package or container in which a controlled substance or dangerous drug 1s dispensed complies
with all state and federal packaging requirements.

(f) Be deemed to be a pharmacy as that term is used in NAC 639.926 and shall comply with that section.

2. A practitioner may dispense dangerous drugs or controlled substances only after the patient has been informed
by the practitioner that the patient may request a written prescription and have it filled at another location of the
patient's choosing.

3. A record regarding the dispensing of a controlled substance or dangerous drug made and kept pursuant to this,
section must be maintained on paper or in a computer. If the record is:

(a) Maintained on paper, the record must”

(2) Include all the information required to be on the prescription pursuant to NRS 639.2353 and NAC 453.440;

(2) Set forth on the front of the prescription a certifi ed and dated by the patient that the patient has
been informed by the practitioner in accordance with subsection 2 and that the patient has agreed to have the
practitioner dispense the controlled substance or dangerous drug; and

(3) Be serially numbered and kept in numerical order in a single file for all dispensing practitioners, including,
without limitation, physician assistants and advanced practice registered nurses, practicing at the same location.

(b) Maintained in a computer, the record must:

(1) Include all the information required to be on the prescription pursuant to NRS 639.2353 and NAC 453.440;

(2) Contain a certification, either in the computer or a separate paper document, initialed and dated by the
patient that the patient has been informed by the practitioner in accordance with subsection 2 and that the patient has
agreed to have the practitioner dispense the controlled substance or dangerous drug; and

3) Be searchable for any item required by paragraph (a) of subsection | to be included in the record,


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Dave
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688-2559

W


26. NAC 639.742(4)(a)-(b) provides, in part, that with regard to the filling and
dispensing of a prescription at a facility, only the dispensing practitioner or a dispensing
technician may enter the room or cabinet in which drugs are stored, or remove drugs from stock.

27. NAC 639.945(1) provides, in pertinent part, that the following acts or practices by
a holder of any license, certificate or registration issued by the Pharmacy Board or any employee
of any business holding any such license, certificate or registration are declared to be, specifically
but not by way of limitation, unprofessional conduct and conduct contrary to the public interest:

(a) Manufacturing, compounding, selling, dispensing or permitting to be
manufactured, compounded, sold or dispensed substandard drugs or preparations.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in NRS 639.2583 to 639.2808, inclusive, for
substitutions of generic drugs, dispensing or causing to be dispensed a different
drug or brand of drug in place of the drug or brand of drug ordered or prescribed,
unless the express permission of the orderer or prescriber is obtained and, in the
case of a written prescription, unless the following information is recorded on the
prescription by the person obtaining permission:

(1) The date on which the permission was granted;

(2) The name of the practitioner granting the permission;

(3) The name of the person obtaining the permission;

(4) The name of the drug dispensed; and

(5) The name of the manufacturer or distributor of the drug.
(c) Using secret formulas.
(d) Except as otherwise provided by subsection 2 of NRS 639.2396, failing strictly
to follow the instructions of the person writing, making or ordering a prescription
or chart order as to its filling or refilling, the content of the label of the prescription
or giving a copy of the prescription or chart order to any person except as permitted
by law.
(e) Failing to confer with the person writing, making or ordering a prescription or

chart order if there is an error or omission in it which should be questioned.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2559


aA wa

Tv
13,

(f) Operating a pharmacy at a location other than the location at which the
pharmacy is licensed to operate.
(g) Supplying or diverting drugs, biologicals, medicines, substances or devices
which are legally sold in pharmacies or by wholesalers, so that unqualified persons
can circumvent any law pertaining to the legal sale of such articles.
(h) Performing or in any way being a party to any fraudulent or deceitful practice
or transaction.
(i) Performing any of his or her duties as the holder of a license, certificate or
registration issued by the Board, or as the owner of a business or an entity licensed
by the Board, in an incompetent, unskillful or negligent manner.
G) Aiding or abetting a person not licensed to practice pharmacy in the State of
‘Nevada.
(k) Performing any act, task or operation for which licensure, certification or
registration is required without the required license, certificate or registration.
(I) Violating any term or condition of a subpoena or order issued by the Board or
the staff of the Board.
(m) Failing to provide any document, data or information that is required to be
made and maintained pursuant to chapters 453, 454, 585 and 639 of NRS and
chapters 453, 454, 585 and 639 of NAC to a member of the Board or a member of |
the staff of the Board upon his or her request.
(n) Dispensing a drug as a dispensing practitioner to a patient with whom the
dispensing practitioner does not have a bona fide therapeutic relationship.
(©) Prescribing a drug as a prescribing practitioner to a patient with whom the
prescribing practitioner does not have a bona fide therapeutic relationship.
28. NAC 639.945(2) provides that the owner of any business or facility licensed,
certified or registered by the Pharmacy Board is responsible for the acts of all personnel in his or

her employ.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
"Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688-2559

u

29. NAC 639.945(3) provides that, for purposes of applying Pharmacy Board
regulations, a bona fide therapeutic relationship between the patient and practitioner shall be
deemed to exist if the patient was examined in person, electronically, telephonically or by fiber
‘optics, by the practitioner within the 6 months immediately preceding the date the practitioner
dispenses or prescribes a drug to the patient and, as a result of the examination, the practitioner
diagnosed a condition for which a given drug therapy is prescribed.

30. Accordingly, any physician or physician assistant who — whether by serving as a
so-called “medical director” of, or by furnishing dangerous drugs or hypodermic devices to, or by
some other relationship or circumstance with any “medical spa” wherein dangerous drugs or
hypodermic devices are possessed, controlled, accessed, prescribed, administered, and/or
dispensed — engages in conduct that violates any regulation adopted by the Pharmacy Board,
including but not limited to NAC 639.742(1)-(3), (4)(a)-(b), or 639.945(1)-(3), has violated the
Nevada Medical Practice Act and is subject to discipline by the Board.

TIL. @ VIP Fi ‘WEC

31. At all relevant times alleged herein, Respondent, individually, and through his
company, Triangle Family Medicine, and, Sandra Bledsoe (Bledsoe), through VIP Faces, Inc. &
Transitions Weight Loss and Empowerment Center (VIPTWEC), were partners in business.

32. | On November 26, 2014, Respondent entered into an Agreement to Sublease Space
and Physician Supervision (NRS 630) (Lease Agreement) whereby Respondent leased office
space to VIPTWEC. Pursuant to this Lease Agreement, Respondent, in his capacity as a
physician, agrees to supervise Sandra Bledsoe (Owner of VIPTWEC) as a medical assistant in
accordance with NRS Chapter 630. Respondent subleased adjacent office space to VIPTWEC
and these offices were adjacent to each other.

33. On December 29, 2014, this partnership relationship was formalized and
documented via a Partnership Agreement (Agreement), executed on January 2, 2015. The stated
purpose of this Agreement was to have the Respondent be the Medical Director (NRS 630) of |
VIPTWEC and implement and supervise the following: 1) coordinate/oversee clinical services

provided by other clinical professionals as they relate to patient care, including nurse practitioner,

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

ut
13,


pharmacy tech., medi-spa injector (Botox/Fillers), and medical assistant.; 2) monitor quality and
appropriateness of medical practices, which includes reviewing and approving of policy &
procedures and oversees documentation; 3) to act as dispensing physician to include dispensing
license, oversee clinical staff licensed to dispense medications, oversee reporting to the Nevada
State Board of Pharmacy, and order medications under DEA/medical license. Respondent served
as the “Medical Director” of VIPTWEC from December 29, 2014, unti] March 17, 2015, when he
informed the Board that he “rescinded the Physician Supervisory Role for Sandra Bledsoe, aka
Sandy Right.”

34. Bledsoe acted as Manager, Medi-Spa Injector and Medical Assistant for
‘VIPTWEC.

35. On or about February 25, 2015, Patient AS, a 46 year-old female, presented to
Bledsoe for Botox treatments for her forehead and wrinkles lateral to her eyes. These treatments
were not ordered by Respondent.

36. On or about March 3, 2015, Patient A’s right eyelid became very droopy; she
experienced blurry vision and eyelid obstruction of her right eye. Patient A presented to a Renown
Urgent Care center, located in Sparks, NV, and her treating physician requested copies of the
VIPTWEC medical records of Botox to confirm the amount and location of Botox injected into
Patient A’s face Patient A was not able to provide her medical records from VIPTWEC.

37 On or about March 13, 2015, Patient A presented to Bledsoe at VIPTWEC,
requesting a copy of her medical records, specifically regarding the treatments rendered by
Bledsoe. No medical records have ever been provided to date. Bledsoe, without Patient A’s
consent, proceeded to inject her with another Botox injection.

38. On or about March 14, 2015, Respondent informed Patient A that he would find
her medical records.

39. On or about March 16, 2015, Patient A presented to VIPTWEC. Respondent did
not provide the aforementioned medical records as promised or as required by the Medical

Practice Act.

+ Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but 1s disclosed in the Patient Designation
served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

ul

40.  VIPTWEC routinely dispensed phentermine and administered Vitamin B-12
injections without Respondent's medical supervision and without medical justification.

41, VIPTWEC, through its principal Bledsoe, held itself out to the public as a “medical

” “specializing” in medical procedures, products and treatments, including “Medical Weight-
loss,” and “Botox,” as well as other non-medical aesthetic and cosmetological services.

42. Respondent was not a manager, agent, officer or employee of VIPTWEC.

43. Respondent had no ownership or member interest in VIPTWEC, but he had a
contractual authority, pursuant to the Agreement, and a statutory duty to manage the medical-
related affairs of VIPTWEC in compliance with the Medical Practice Act.

44. Neither Bledsoe nor any of VIPTWEC’s employees or other independent
contractors was employed by Respondent during the time Respondent served as Medical Director
of VIPTWEC.

45. At all times relevant to the facts alleged herein, neither Bledsoe, nor any other
member, manager, employee or independent contractor of VIPTWEC, was licensed by any
Nevada professional licensing board pursuant to chapters 630 to 637, inclusive, 639 or 640 of
NRS to practice medicine in the State of Nevada.

46. No person in any way affiliated with or employed by VIPTWEC held a medical
license issued by the Board during the time Respondent served as Medical Director, other than
Respondent himself.

47. Bledsoe was NOT at all relevant times a Nevada licensed “Cosmetologist.”

48, The only times Respondent was personally present at VIPTWEC’s location during
his time as Medical Director were the instances when he appeared referring a patient to
VIPTWEC to receive Bledsoe’s treatments and/or during Patient A’s care.

49. | VIPTWEC’s medical records show no indication that Respondent supervised,
contacted or consulted Bledsoe, or anyone else at VIPTWEC, in person or by any other means
during Respondent’s service as Medical Director.

50.  VIPTWEC did not maintain medical records during Respondent’s supervision as
Medical Director.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

51. Respondent has been licensed in active status (License No. PD00S01) by the
Pharmacy Board since January 20, 2015, to dispense prescription drugs at the following location:
1475 Terminal Way, Suite Al, Reno, Nevada 89502.

52. Respondent, personally or at his direction to any medical assistant associated with
VIPTWEC, procured prescription-strength Botox and Restylane; the aforementioned drugs and
hypodermic devices are available only by prescription and are dangerous drugs as defined by
NRS 454.201.

53. Respondent, personally or at his direction to any medical assistant, delivered these
dangerous drugs and hypodermic devices to VIPTWEC employees at VIPTWEC’s office location
and left them in their sole possession, custody and control and beyond the supervision or restraint
of Respondent.

54, Respondent did not apply to the Pharmacy Board for a certificate of registration to
dispense controlled substances or dangerous drugs at VIPTWEC’s location.

55. During Respondent’s service as Medical Director to VIPTWEC, Bledsoe and/or
VIPTWEC’s employees or agents provided medical treatment and/or prescriptions, and/or
administered dangerous drugs and hypodermic devices and/or dispensed dangerous drugs and
hypodermic devices, to at least all of VIPTWEC’s patients.

56.  Bledsoe’s conduct set forth above constitutes the practice of medicine in Nevada.

57. VIPTWEC’s medical records contain no entries for patient history, notes,
examination findings, tests performed, procedures performed, dangerous drugs dispensed,
administered or prescribed, or therapeutic procedures performed by Respondent.

58.  Respondent’s medical office manager ordered Botox, B-12 and other dangerous
drugs for delivery at Respondent’s medical practice and for use by VIPTWEC.

59. Upon information and belief, Respondent’s medical office manager delivered the
orders for Botox, B-12, and other dangerous drugs to VIPTWEC at Respondent's direction.

60. All of the dangerous drugs listed, while in the custody and control of VIPTWEC
and its employees or agents, were not stored in a secure, locked room or cabinet to which the

dispensing practitioner had the only key or lock combination,


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(C75) 658-2559

ce x

WW

61. Upon information and belief, Bledsoe and/or other employees of VIPTWEC had
unrestricted access to these dangerous drugs and hypodermic devices.

62. Botox is introduced hypodermically, that is, subcutaneously.

63. Bledsoe and/or VIPTWEC, and its employees and agents, possessed, controlled,
stored, prescribed and/or dispensed all the aforementioned dangerous drugs and hypodermic
devices without a dispensing license or a controlled substance license as required by the Pharmacy
Board.

64. Respondent was not present when Bledsoe and/or VIPTWEC, and its employees
and agents, possessed, controlled, stored, prescribed and/or dispensed the aforementioned
dangerous drugs.

65. Respondent neither received nor accounted for the dangerous drugs and
hypodermic devices administered and dispensed by VIPTWEC, nor did he ensure that such drugs
and hypodermic devices were stored in a secure, locked room or cabinet to which he had the only
key or lock combination. The dangerous drugs and hypodermic devices were not dispensed in
accordance with NAC 639.745. Respondent did not have a bona fide therapeutic relationship with
any of the VIPTWEC patients at issue, nor did he write a prescription for any drugs to any of
these patients, nor was he on-site at the facility or otherwise immediately available when they
were prescribed or otherwise administered or dispensed. Respondent personally dispensed none
of the drugs dispensed at VIPTWEC’s facility, and did not assure that they were dispensed only
for medically necessary purposes and according to prevailing standards of care, nor did he assure
that a certificate for each dispensing technician employed at the facility was displayed in the room
or cabinet in which drugs were stored.

66. — Respondent supplied dangerous drugs and hypodermic devices so that unqualified
persons could circumvent laws pertaining to the legal sale of such articles, and allowed others to
dispense and prescribe dangerous drugs to those whom he did not have a bona fide therapeutic
relationship.

67. Respondent failed to ensure that he had the required ownership or employment
relationship with respect to VIPTWEC, and failed to ensure that he had the legal and practical


[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

a1

control of VIPTWEC’s operations sufficient to effectively control the conduct of its employees
and agents in performance of all medical activities as his medical assistants or otherwise, in order
to prevent misconduct and ensure that his medical assistants possessed the knowledge, skill and
training to perform their tasks safely and properly.
COUNT I
NRS 630.306(1)(r): Failure to Adequately Supervise

68. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

69.  NRS 630,306(1)(r) provides that a failure to supervise adequately a medical
assistant pursuant to the regulations of the Board is an act that constitutes grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

70. By the conduct described herein, Respondent failed to supervise adequately, or
supervise in any way, Bledsoe, and all other employees or contractors of VIPTWEC in their
performance of medical tasks during his time as Medical Director.

71. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT Ht
NRS 630.305(1)(e): Aiding Practice by Unlicensed Person

72. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

73.  NRS 630.305(1)(e) provides that the aiding, assisting, employing or advising,
directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine contrary to the
provisions of NRS Chapter 630 or the regulations of the Board is an act, among others, that
constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

74. By the conduct described herein, to the extent that Respondent either did not
delegate medical tasks to Bledsoe, and VIPTWEC’s agents and employees as medical assistants,
or to the extent that their actions were not authorized by Respondent, Respondent nonetheless

aided, assisted and advised these unlicensed persons, both directly and indirectly, in their


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2859

13,

engaging in the practice of medicine contrary to the provisions of NRS Chapter 630 and/or the
regulations of the Board.

75. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.3062(1)(a): Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records

76. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

71. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is an act,
among others, that constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

78. Pursuant to NAC 630.830, as delegating practitioner, Respondent is professionally
responsible for the safety and performance of each task which is delegated to a medical assistant.

79. Respondent and his medical assistants failed to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records by failing to include patient histories, clinical notes, examination
findings, tests performed, procedures performed, dangerous drugs and hypodermic devices used,
administered or prescribed, or therapeutic procedures performed that can be attributed to
Respondent, among other omissions.

80. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IV
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3): Engaging in Conduct That Violated Pharmacy Board Regulations

81. _Allof the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

82. _ NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) provides that engaging in conduct that violates a regulation

adopted by the Pharmacy Board is grounds for
ut
mw

itiating disciplinary action against a licensee.


'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

i
aa

83. By the conduct described herein, Respondent engaged in conduct that violates
regulations adopted by the Pharmacy Board, specifically including, but not limited to, NAC
639.742(1)-(3), (4)(a)-(b), 639.945(1)-(3).

84. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine the sanctions it will
impose if it finds Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act;

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve upon the
Respondent, in writing, its findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, which shall include the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further'
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this day of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BO. OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

wae

Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

TT



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE )


Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of|
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes the allegations and charges in the

foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

en wile, twee

M. Neil Duxbury
Chairman, Investigative Committee
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


