
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-27350-1

Complaint Against: FILED

ALEXANDER NORTON, JR., M.D.,
JUL 14 2021

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
zie EXAMINERS
By: ae

Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the
IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Alexander Norton, Jr., M.D., (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 10491). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on May 21, 2003.

2. On September 25, 2017, Patient A? presented to Respondent for sexually
transmitted disease (SDT) testing and a lesion near her rectum. Respondent conducted a physical
examination and noted a small perianal lesion with no abnormal discharge and ordered the
following laboratory tests: HIV 1/3 antigen/antibody, fourth generation with RFL, hepatitis plan,
acute with reflex to confirm; sure swab (R), vaginosis/vaginitis plus and RPP (dx) with reflex titer

and confirmation testing. Respondent, however, did not note the perianal lesion within the

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Mr. M. Neil
Duxbury, and Victor M. Muro, M.D.

2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient

Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.



assessment section of Patient A’s medical record. Respondent recorded the assessment code for
vaginal discharge, yet the physical examination section stated there was no abnormal discharge
found. Respondent did not note the plan for conducting a biopsy of Patient A’s perianal lesion.

3. On October 2, 2017, Patient A presented for a pap smear test (PAPT), which was
submitted along the GC/chlamydia/reflex HPV test to the laboratory. Subsequently, the PAPT
results indicated atypical squamous cells of undermined significance (ASCUS). Respondent’s
gynecological examination described no abnormal finding and there was no note of the previously
diagnosed perianal lesion, which was Patient A’s main complaint on the first encounter with
Respondent.

4. On October 9, 2017, Patient A returned to Respondent, who did not properly review
Patient A’s medical record prior this encounter and believed that Patient A was scheduled for an
endometrial biopsy (EMB). Respondent performed that EMB? scheduled by his medical assistant.
Immediately after the procedure, Patient A stated to Respondent that she was expecting to have an
appointment/procedure to obtain a biopsy of the perianal lesion previously identified and
documented by Respondent. Respondent investigated this confusion with his staff as to why the
proper procedure (biopsy of the perianal lesion) for Patient A’s medical confidion was not
scheduled or performed. Respondent communicated with Patient A that the procedure he had just
performed was in error and was not necessary for the diagnosis of her condition. Respondent did
not document that he performed the EMB and coded Patient A’s assessment for this encounter as
abnormal uterine and vaginal bleeding and a high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion of the
cervix — none of the assessment codes were documented in any previous medical encounters with
Patient A. Respondent noted Patient A’s history of present illness noted a PAPT showing atypical
cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS). Respondent failed to mention or document his
assessment of Patient A’s perianal lesion. Respondent did not document that he, in fact,
performed the incorrect procedure upon Patient A and such procedure was performed in error and
without Patient A’s informed consent.


3 Endometrial biopsy was negative and Patient A did not have cancer.



COUNT I
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

5. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

7. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

8. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
treating Patient A when: i) he failed to document Patient A’s perianal lesion in the assessment
section in the medical record; ii) he failed to establish and document a plan of treatment for the
diagnosed lesion; iii) he failed to properly supervise his medical assistant, who scheduled the
wrong medical procedure; iv) he failed to properly review Patient A’s medical record before
performing an invasive medical procedure; and v) when he performed the wrong medical
procedure upon Patient A on October 9, 2017.

9. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IH
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

10. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

11. | NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

12. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by i) failing to record of the perianal lesion in the assessment

section; ii) by failing to document a plan to manage the lesion; and iii) by failing to ensure that he

i1


and his staff generated and maintained accurate assessment codes and scheduling calendars within
Patient A’s medical records.

13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
matter as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises. . /

DATED this [Ly day of July, 2021.

een

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEVADA
STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

ROBERT G. KILROY, J.D.

Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: rkilroy@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

By:


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
1 SS.
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Victor M. Muro, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the

investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in

the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this | f day of July, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

UM Mer rr

VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Chairman of the Investigative Committee

By:

