OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
"960 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688-2559

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
es
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-28177-2
Complaint Against: FILED
JOSE HIRAM ALVAREZ, M.D., MAR 10 2021
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINE:
By: Z Sa

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

COMPLAINT

(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Jose Hiram Alvarez, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions of|
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and
allegations as follows:

Lc Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a Medical Doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 10765). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on December 5, 2003 Respondent's specialty is listed as
Obstetrics/Gynecology on the Board’s website. Cosmetic surgery is not a specialty therein
obstetrics and gynecology.

2 Patient A, Patient B and Patient C’s true identifies are not disclosed herein to protect
their privacy, but are disclosed in the Patient Designation, which is served upon Respondent along

with a copy of this Complaint.
3. On August 20, 2018, Patient A presented and consented for Respondent to perform

the following procedures: suction-assisted liposuction of the abdomen, flank, and back;

} The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal Complaint
‘was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Aury Nagy, M.D., and
Mr. M. Neil Duxbury

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89821,
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

ry


abdominoplasty pannus removal, and a fat transfer to the buttock. Respondent used tumescent
anesthesia for all of the aforementioned procedures and acted as surgeon and anesthesiologist for
Patient A’s care. Within the patient’s history and physical examinations, Patient A’s medical record
lacked the standard measurements and details typically noted in cosmetic plastic surgery
evaluations.

4. On August 8, 2018, Patient B presented and consented for Respondent to perform the
following procedures: suction-assisted liposuction of the abdomen, flank, and back; abdominoplasty
pannus removal, and a fat transfer to the buttock. Respondent used tumescent anesthesia for all of |
the aforementioned procedures and acted as surgeon and anesthesiologist for Patient B’s care.
Within the patient’s history and physical examinations, Patient B's medical record lacked the
standard measurements and details typically noted in cosmetic plastic surgery evaluations.

5. On January 8, 2018, Patient C presented and consented for Respondent to perform
the following procedures: suction-assisted liposuction of the abdomen, flank and back;
abdominoplasty pannus removal, and a fat transfer to the buttock. Respondent used tumescent
anesthesia for all of the aforementioned procedures and acted as surgeon and anesthesiologist for
Patient C’s care. Within the patient’s history and physical examinations, Patient C’s medical record
lacked the standard measurements and details typically noted in cosmetic plastic surgery
evaluations.

6. Respondent is neither a board-certified cosmetic surgeon nor a plastic surgeon.
Respondent’s training consisted of workshops and received certificates of cosmetic surgery. When
performing abdominoplasties, brachioplasties, breast augmentation, and fat transfer procedures, the
standard of care typically requires these procedures are performed under general anesthesia with a
board-certified Anesthesiologist or CRNA present. Liposuction procedures are acceptable with the
use of tumescent anesthesia; however, the other procedures performed by Respondent required the
use of a general anesthesia with a board-certified Anesthesiologist or CRNA present. Respondent
has no documentation regarding is training and/or experience for performing in brachioplasties,
abdommoplasties or fat transfer to the buttocks, Cosmetic surgery is a subspecialty of plastic

surgery.

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 658-2589

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

WW
15,


COUNTS I-III
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

7. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8 NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

10. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
he provided medical services to Patients A, B and C, because Respondent lacked the requisite
training in plastic surgery to perform liposuctions, breast augmentations, brachioplasties, fat
transfers, and abdominoplasties, and, because Respondent improperly used tumescent anesthesia
when performing abdominoplasties, brachioplasties, breast augmentation, and fat transfer
procedures.

11, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNTS IV-VI
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to M: in Complete Medical Records)

12. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

13,  NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

14. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, B and C by failing to document his actions when he treated
Patients A, B and C whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

“a

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521,

(75) 688-2559

ta ween

"1

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

Es That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED 5 day of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attomey for the Investigative Committee

9600 Gateway Drive
(075) 685-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

rt
13,


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF WASHOE

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this id day of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

w.tleiv tyes}

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, Chairman

