
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-22461-1

Complaint Against: elTLED

MATTHEW OBIM OKEKE, M.LD.,
OCT 26 2021

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
ZAL EXAMINERS

By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for
the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Matthew Obim Okeke, M.D. (Respondent) violated
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the
IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a Medical Doctor holding an
active-probation license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 14957).
Respondent was originally licensed by the Board on September 6, 2013. On September 6, 2019,
Respondent’s license was placed upon probationary conditions (female supervision for all female
patient encounters and maintain a formal monitoring agreement) for two (2) years from the
aforementioned date or otherwise ordered by the Board. An Amended Settlement Agreement was
approved March 6, 2020 by the Board and filed March 9, 2020 which did not change the above-
outlined terms of the agreement.


' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, Aury Nagy, M.D.,
Michael C. Edwards, M.D., FACS

Page 1 of 8


2. On December 3, 2013, Patient A* was diagnosed by Respondent with bipolar
disorder from a psychiatric evaluation based upon Patient A’s most recent severe manic episode.
Respondent notes such diagnosis of Bipolar disorder in the “chief complaint” section of Patient
A’s medical record. Respondent did not discuss or document any medication adjustments to
address Patient A’s “severe” symptoms. Respondent documented “continue present
management.” Less than thirty (30) days later, Patient A was hospitalized in an acute psychiatric
setting for suicidal ideation and paranoia.

3. On September 11, 2014, Patient A requested and Respondent granted an increase
in her drug medications, Strattera, Topamax, and Trazodone. Patient A stated her request was
based upon her poor sleep and increased drug cravings. The Stattera was increased and another
drug was added, Trazodone (a nightly dosage of 300mg). No medical justification or rationale
was documented by Respondent into Patient A’s medical record for the increased dosage or the
added medication. Patient A’s medical history and diagnosis of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder (ADHD) was not documented by Respondent into Patient A’s medical record.
Respondent did not check Patient A’s Prescription Monitoring Program Report (PMP) from the
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy to ensure another medical provider had not already prescribed
this type of medication to Patient A.

4, On January 20, 2015, Patient A started taking Lithium Carbonate (Lithium) in
addition to the Depakote previously prescribed by Respondent. Again, Respondent did not
properly monitor or document his monitoring, nor provide medical justification of these
aforementioned medications given their respective therapeutic windows and a possibility of drug
toxicity due to potential, unintended, side-effects with regard to the Lithium. Respondent did not
check Patient A’s PMP to ascertain if she was subject to any other prescriptions by other medical
providers.

5. On April 13, 2015 and on April 22, 2015, Respondent documented another drastic
change in Patient A’s “treatment medications” without any indication of a discussion regarding

the following: 1) Patient A’s non-compliance with Respondent’s treatment plan; 2) any possible,

2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint and filed under seal.

Page 2 of 8


unintended side-effects of Patient’s change in medications; nor, 3) any medical justifications for
the medication changes. Respondent did not check Patient A’s PMP.

6. On June 27, 2016, Respondent ordered a drug screen for Patient A. The results
demonstrated that Patient A was compliant with Respondent’s medication regime, but for the
positive test results for opiates, which were not indicated or documented in Patient A’s medical
records. Respondent failed to address the opiate test results with Patient A. Respondent did not
check Patient A’s PMP.

7. On March 27, 2017, Patient A presented to Respondent and mentioned her having
a “schizophrenic episode.” Respondent did not document in Patient A’s medical record any
symptoms she experienced, and if there was any resolution, or a return to the baseline functioning
for Patient. Similarly, on September 17, 2018, Patient A presented to Respondent following her
most recent acute hospitalization where she suffered seizures and was eventually released on an
antiepileptic medication. Here, Respondent did not update Patient A’s medical record’s sections
of “medical history” and “review of systems” to reflect the recent seizures. Respondent did not
query or investigate whether Patient A’s seizures were potentially medication-withdrawal related.
Respondent did not check Patient A’s PMP.

8. On January 1, 2018, Respondent failed to review Patient A’s PMP prior to his
prescribing controlled substances to Patient A. Respondent should have ordered random drug
screen tests due to Patient A’s medical history of substance and alcohol use. No such tests were
ordered and no review of Patient A’s current medication (PMP) was documented. Respondent did
not check Patient A’s PMP.

9. On January 16, 2018, Patient A’s complaint of hallucinations was documented in
the “chief complaint” section but was not included in the section of the mental status examination.
Additionally, Respondent prescribed Adderall (20mg/morning) without any medical justification
or rationale documented into Patient A’s medical record although Patient A stated her anxiety had
worsened and she suffered from psychotic symptoms, both of which could be further exacerbated
by a stimulant medication (Adderall). Respondent did not check Patient A’s PMP.


Page 3 of 8


10. On January 25, 2019, Respondent documented Patient A’s “treatment
medications” were listed as “Fanapt (8mg/night) and Belsoma (20mg/night).” Respondent did not
check Patient A’s PMP.

11 On February 4, 2019, Patient A stopped taking the aforementioned (Fanapt
Belsoma) medications; Respondent updated “treatment medications” and listed “Zoloft
(100mg/daily); Geodon (160mg/nightly); Gabapentin (600mg/3x daily)” On February 11, 2019,
Patient A stated that she restarted taking Valium (Smg/2x daily) and Belsomra as documented by
Respondent in the “treatment medications” of the medical record. Respondent did not either
address these recent medications and/or he did not document his medical rationales or
justifications for Patient A to continue to take these medications (Valium & Belsomra) in her
medical record. Again, Respondent did not check Patient A’s PMP. Diazepam (5mg/2x) was the
last prescription Respondent wrote for Patient A.

13. On April 24, 2019, Respondent documented “bipolar disorder, current episode
manic without psychotic features” and “bipolar disorder, current episode depressed, severe,
without psychotic features” in the section label “diagnosis.” Here, the entries are inconsistent
with each other, e.g., “manic” and “depressed” are the opposite sides of this medical condition.
This medical record is inaccurate as to what was the correct type of episode Patient A suffered on
this date.

14. On August 22, 2019, Patient A committed suicide at the age of thirty-nine (39)
years old. The cause of death was determined by the Clark County Coroner who stated that the
manner of death was multiple drug intoxication (bupropion, gabapentin, and diphenhydramine).
The autopsy report stated that Patient A had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease;
multiple mental illnesses, including bipolar disorder, anxiety and depression; she suffered from
addiction since the age of fifteen (15) (chronic alcohol, methamphetamine, and prescription drug
abuse). The report further indicated that Patient A’s prescription medications were inventoried
and too many pills remained in their containers. Thus, indicating non-compliance with taking her

prescriptions as ordered.


Page 4 of 8


COUNT I
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

15. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

16. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

17. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.

18. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined factual allegations,
Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances when he provided medical services to Patient A. Respondent’s specific acts of
malpractice are as follows, but not limited to: 1) failing to justify the use, increase and decrease,
and then subsequent increases in dosages of Patient A’s medication; 2) prescribing a combination
of controlled substances without documenting the medical justification or rationale; 3) failing to
review the PMP report prior to, during, and after the encounters with Patient A; 4) failing to
assess Patient A’s concurrent medication interactions; 5) failing to assess Patient A for possible
drug abuse, drug diversion or any other non-medical related activity; 6) failing to assess Patient A
for possible drug screens on a consistent basis; and, 7) failing to diligently monitor potential
medication interactions in Patient A’s changing treatment plans.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records)

20. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.


Page 5 of 8


21. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

22. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined factual allegations,
Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and
care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when he treated Patient A. The medical
records for Patient A were inaccurate and incomplete due to his lack of diligence in documenting
the medical justifications and rationales for all of his prescribing of various different medications
for Patient A. As well as, the lack of documenting his request and receipt of the PMP reports for
Patient A from the Nevada Board of Pharmacy. Further, Respondent failed to document important
details regarding Patient A’s medication changes, symptomatology, psychiatric history, and
medical history.

23. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
matter as outlined in NRS 622.400.

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and


Page 6 of 8


6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in
these premises

DATED this 26" day of October, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEVADA
STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

» ALCL

ROBERT G. KILROY, J.D.

Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: rkilroy@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Page 7 of 8


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED iv es

day of October, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Chairmat fof the Investigative Committee

Page 8 of 8

