


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RREKSK

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-20969-1
Against FI LED

QUINTON KEITH THOMAS M.D., JUN -7 2021

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MED§CAL E NERS
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for
the IC, and Quinton Keith Thomas, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted
by his attorney, Charles R. Zeh, Esq., of the Law Offices of Charles R. Zeh, Esq., hereby enter
into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND
1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board

pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in Nevada.
His license was originally issued on November 30, 2001 (License No. 10037).

2. On March 4, 2021 in Case No. 21-20969-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)@), Failure to Adequately Supervise a Medical
Assistant? (Count I), one (1) violation of NRS 630.305(1)(e) Aiding Practice by Unlicensed Person

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

2 Respondent promptly terminated his supervision and provided such timely notice to the Board.


(Count Il), one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records
(Count II) and one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) Engaging in Conduct that Violated
Pharmacy Board Regulations, (Count IV).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel of his
choosing concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is averse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement. If

on > WY

on


the Board does not agree and approve this Agreement, then Respondent may rescind this
Agreement in its entirely. Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves this
Agreement, then the terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable
upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set

forth in the Medical Practice Act.
2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent_Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, if the Board approves this Agreement, and all conditions, then Respondent
knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection with this administrative
matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under
the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the OML, the
APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this matter,
including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the Complaint, and
imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to


nan - WY N


u

settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this Agreement, without a hearing
or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I, Failure to Adequately Supervise a Medical Assistant,
NRS 630.306(1)(r), and Count IV, Engaging in Conduct that Violated Pharmacy Board Regulations,
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3).

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within nine (9) months of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being three thousand eight-hundred
and seventy-two dollars and sixteen cents ($3,872.16) and not including any costs that may be
necessary to finalize this Agreement. Respondent shall make nine (9) monthly installment
payments of four hundred thirty dollars and twenty-four cents ($430.24), with the first payment
due on July 6, 2021 with the remaining installment payments due on August 6, 2021,


September 7, 2021, October 6, 2021, November 5, 2021, December 6, 2021, January 6, 2022,
February 7, 2022, and last payment due on March 7, 2022.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) within ninety
(90) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f. Respondent shall take three (3) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
related to ethics within the next three (3) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition
to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their completion.

g. Respondent shall not engage in any “medical spa” related activities with any
unlicensed individuals or entities.

h. Counts II and III shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.


Rk BW WN



7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is

discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s

counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice. If Board
does not accept the settlement terms of this Agreement, then the Respondent may withdraw his
admission(s) within this Agreement and may rescind the Agreement in its entirety.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Agreement and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any

such member absent evidence of bad faith.


Oo Oo NID


10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County (district court).

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

é
DATED this (4@ day of AGM_,2021.  vaTEDthis //” dayot Hy _, 2021.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE —_— LAW OFFICES OF CHARLESR. ZEH, ESQ.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS C x OQ/

ROBERT KILROY, ESQ. CHARLES R. ZEH, ESQ.
Senior Deputy General Counsel 50 W. Liberty Street, Suite 950
9600 Gateway Drive Reno, NV 89501

Reno, NV 89521 Attorneys for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee th
DATED this _//" “day of May _, 2021.

Suid K Wms —>

QUINTON KEITH THOMAS, M.D.
Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the foregoing Settlkement Agreement (Case No.
21-20969-1) was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the
4th day of June, 2021, with the final total amount of costs due of three thousand eight hundred
seventy-two dollars and sjxteen cents ($3,872.16).
DATED this fe day of June, 2021.
NEVADA STATE BOARD_OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

RACHAKONDA D. PRABHU, RD.
President

