BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
oie RECEIVED
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-50482-1 AUG 23 2021
Against: NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
LOUISE MITSUKO BAARTZ, RRT, FI L E D MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Respondent.

SEP 10 2021

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEAL, EXAMINE
SETTLEMENT AGREE oe

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Louise Mitsuko Baartz, RRT (Respondent), a licensed respiratory
therapist in Nevada, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the
following:

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a respiratory therapist currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. Her license was originally issued on May 29, 2019 (License No. RC3159).

2. On July 16, 2021, in Case No. 21-50482-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint)
charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the Complaint alleges
one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(3), Count IJ. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject
to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the
allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if
the decision is averse to her.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between Respondent
and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for
consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent understands
that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement. Respondent
further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the terms and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_ Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms and
conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection with
this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice
Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering into
this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Counts I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(3)
Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being four hundred eighty nine
dollars and eighty nine cents ($489.89), not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize
this Agreement.

c. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

d. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands and
agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators,
experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents are immune
from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to information
acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of Nevada, the
Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees,
panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions, causes of
action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown,
in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all
of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of, or by
reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

¥. Ediect of Kejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not accept,
approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and effect
except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is required to
seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such jurisdiction and
agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of Nevada,
Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term or
condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by the
Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid
as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this BU of A (7 ,2021. DATED this_20 day of Aug ust, 2021.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL

CAC he Bae

By: LOUISE MITSUKO BAARTZ, RRT
ROBERT G. KILROY, J.D. Respondent
Senior Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521
no SEE ATTACHED
Be OT) OBS S99 WOTARIAL CERTIFICATE

Email: rkilroy@medboard nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

FWOISILYSO TWINVLON
GSHOVLIV 338

State of NEVADA
County of

before me on
, 2021 by

This instrument was acknowled,
this day of
Louise Mitsuko Baartz, RRT.

YY PUBLIC

My appointment expires:
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
validity of that document.

CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT

State of California

County of San Bernardino }

On Aug ust 20, 2UZ! before me, Tammy M. Gonzalez; A Notary Public,

Date (Name and Title of the Officer)

personally appeared Lov | 5 Mi tou leo Paar tz

Name F) of Signer (9

who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(¢) whose names(#) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that hé/she/they executed the same in
hiS/her/théir authorized capacity (ig), and that by bis/her/théir signature(#) on the instrument the
person(f, or the entity upon behalf of which the person(g) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal. Signature of Notary Hublig in and for Said State

TAMMY M. GONZALEZ
Notary Pubtic - California
San Bernardino County

Commission # 2276292 OPTIONAL NFORMATION

My Comm. Expires Feb 1, 2023 3

Description of Attached Document bebre The
Board 0f Medical Examiners DE
te state df Nevada,

Number of Pages 172

Notary Seal Document Date 8/20 [2021

Right Thumbprint of Signer
(Optional)

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 21-50482-1)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 10" day of

September, 2021.

DATED this /0 day of September, 2021.

By:

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

UJ fed rrs

VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Board President

