Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

il

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-50482-1
Complaint Against: FI LE D
LOUISE MITSUKO BAARTZ, RRT, JUL 6 2021
DA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. NE MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By: Cc o7
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the
IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Louise Mitsuko Baartz, RRT, (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a Respiratory Therapist
holding an active license to practice respiratory therapy in the State of Nevada
(License No. RC3159). Respondent was originally licensed by the Board on May 29, 2019.

2. On May 14, 2020, the California State Respiratory Board adopted a Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order against Respondent. See Exhibit 1. This Order issued a stayed
revocation of Respondent’s license and placed her on probation for four (4) years. The underlying
basis for the aforementioned was based upon Respondent’s failure to verify the correct medication
and dosage, and/or, gave the wrong medication to the patient. Respondent also failed to
accurately document this incident and failed to monitor the patient for any adverse effects after

administering the wrong medicine.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Michael C. Edwards, M.D. FACS,
Aury Nagy, M.D., and Mr. M. Neil Duxbury.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

it

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(3) (Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board)

3. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.
4. Pursuant to NRS 630.301(3), any disciplinary action, including, without limitation,

the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type of
medicine, taken by another state, among other entities, is grounds for disciplinary action against a
licensee.

5. The California Medical Board revocation of Respondent’s license to practice

respiratory care in California on May 14, 2020, constitutes disciplinary action by another state.

6. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
7. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and
[fT

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521


5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this # ray of July, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
die BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Of 2

ROBERT G. KILROY, J.D.

Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: rkilroy@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman, of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in

the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this [5" ‘day of uly 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

EXHIBIT 1
BEFORE THE
RESPIRATORY CARE BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:
Case No. 7002019000643

LOUISE MITSUKO BAARTZ
20194 Osseo Road
Apple Valley, CA 92308-4416

Respiratory Care Practitioner License No. 38828

DECISION AND ORDER

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby
adopted by the Respiratory Care Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs,

as its Decision in the above entitled matter.

This Decision shall become effective on May 24, 2020.

it is so ORDERED May 14, 2020.

emus a ‘
UZ ;

RICARDO G a —

PRESIDENT, RESPIRATORY CARE BOARD
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of California

ALEXANDRA M. ALVAREZ

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

CHRISTINE A. RHEE

Deputy Attorney General

State Bar No. 295656

600 West Broadway, Suite 1800

San Diego, CA 92101

P.O. Box 85266

San Diego, CA 92186-5266
Telephone: (619) 738-9455
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
RESPIRATORY CARE BOARD
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 7002019000643
LOUISE MITSUKO BAARTZ, R.C.P. STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND
20194 Osseo Road DISCIPLINARY ORDER

Apple Valley, CA 92308-4416

Respiratory Care Practitioner License
No. 38828,

Respondent.

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-

entitled proceedings that the following matters are true:
PARTIES

1. Stephanie Nunez (Complainant) is the Executive Officer of the Respiratory Care
Board of California (Board). She brought this action solely in her official capacity and is
represented in this matter by Xavier Becerra, Attorney General of the State of California, by
Christine A. Rhee, Deputy Attorney General.


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)


1]

2. Respondent Louise Mitsuko Baartz, R.C.P. (Respondent) is represented in this
proceeding by attorney Elizabeth M. Brady, Esq., whose address is: 8880 Rio San Diego Drive,
Suite 800, San Diego, CA 92108-1642.

3. Onor about December 6, 2016, the Board issued Respiratory Care Practitioner
License No. 38828 to Respondent. Respiratory Care Practitioner License No. 38828 was in full
force and effect at all times relevant to the charges brought in Accusation No. 7002019000643,
and will expire on September 30, 2020, unless renewed.

JURISDICTION

4. Accusation No. 7002019000643 was filed before the Board, and is currently pending
against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily required documents were properly
served on Respondent on February 21, 2020. Respondent timely filed her Notice of Defense
contesting the Accusation.

5. Acopy of Accusation No. 7002019000643 is attached as Exhibit A and is

incorporated by reference herein.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

6. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
fully discussed with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order.

7. Respondent is fully aware of her legal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to confront and cross-examine
the witnesses against her; the right to present evidence and to testify on her own behalf; the right
to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
documents; the right to reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision; and all other
rights accorded by the California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws, having
been fully advised of the same by her attorney of record.

8. Having had the benefit of counsel, Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and

intelligently waives and gives up each and every right set forth above.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)


CULPABILITY

9. Respondent does not contest that, at an administrative hearing, Complainant could
establish a prima facie case with respect to the charges and allegations contained in Accusation
No. 7002019000643, and that she has thereby subjected her license to disciplinary action.

10. Respondent agrees that if she ever petitions for early termination or modification of
probation, or if the Board ever petitions for revocation of probation, all of the charges and
admitted by Respondent for purposes of that proceeding or any other licensing proceeding
involving Respondent in the State of California.

11. Respondent agrees that her Respiratory Care Practitioner License No. 38828 is
subject to discipline and she agrees to be bound by the Board’s probationary terms as set forth in
the Disciplinary Order below.

RESERVATION

12. The admissions made by Respondent herein are only for the purposes of this
proceeding, or any other proceedings in which the Respiratory Care Board or other professional
licensing agency is involved, and shall not.be admissible in any other criminal or civil
proceeding.

CONTINGENCY

13. The parties agree that this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be
submitted to the Board for its consideration in the above-entitled matter and, further, that the
Board shall have a reasonable period of time in which to consider and act on this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order after receiving it. By signing this stipulation, Respondent fully
understands and agrees that she may not withdraw her agreement or seek to rescind this
stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it.

14. The parties agree that this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be null
and void and not binding upon the parties unless approved and adopted by the Board, except for
this paragraph, which shall remain in full force and effect. Respondent fully understands and

agrees that in deciding whether or not to approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

a


1]

Disciplinary Order, the Board may receive oral and written communications from its staff and/or
the Attorney General’s office. Communications pursuant to this paragraph shall not disqualify
the Board, any member thereof, and/or any other person from future participation in this or any
other matter affecting or involving Respondent. In the event that the Board, in its discretion, does
not approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, with the exception of
this paragraph, it shall not become effective, shall be of no evidentiary value whatsoever, and
shall not be relied upon or introduced in any disciplinary action by either party hereto.
Respondent further agrees that should the Board reject this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary
Order for any reason, Respondent will assert no claim that the Board, or any member thereof, was
prejudiced by its/his/her review, discussion and/or consideration of this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order or of any matter or matters related hereto.

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

15. This Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is intended by the parties herein to
be an integrated writing representing the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the
agreements of the parties in the above-entitled matter.

16. The parties agree that copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order,
including copies of the signatures of the parties, may be used in lieu of original documents and
signatures and, further, that copies shall have the same force and effect as originals.

17. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree the
Board may, without further notice to or opportunity to be heard by Respondent, issue and enter
the following Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT Is HEREBY ORDERED that Respiratory Care Practitioner License No. 38828 issued to
Respondent LOUISE MITSUKO BAARTZ, R.C.P. (Respondent) is revoked. However, the
revocation is stayed and Respondent is placed on probation for four (4) years from the effective

date of the Decision with the following terms and conditions:

lL. OBEY ALL LAWS Respondent shall obey all laws, whether federal, state, or local.

Respondent shall also obey all regulations governing the practice of respiratory care in California.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)


Respondent shall notify the Board in writing within three (3) days of any incident resulting in her
arrest, or charges filed against, or a citation issued against, Respondent.

2. QUARTERLY REPORTS Respondent shall file quarterly reports of compliance

under penalty of perjury, on forms to be provided, to the probation monitor assigned by the
Board. Omission or falsification in any manner of any information on these reports shall
constitute a violation of probation and shall result in the filing of an Accusation and/or a Petition
to Revoke Probation against Respondent’s respiratory care practitioner license.

Quarterly report forms will be provided by the Board. Respondent is responsible for
contacting the Board to obtain additional forms if needed. Quarterly reports are due for each year
of probation and the entire length of probation as follows:

° For the period covering January 1st through March 31st, reports are to be
completed and submitted between April Ist and April 7th.

e For the period covering April 1st through June 30th, reports are to be completed
and submitted between July Ist and July 7th.

e For the period covering July 1st through September 30th, reports are to be
completed and submitted between October 1st and October 7th.

° For the period covering October Ist through December 31st, reports are to be
completed and submitted between January Ist and January 7th.

3. PROBATION MONITORING PROGRAM Respondent shall comply with

requirements of the Board appointed probation monitoring program, and shall, upon reasonable
request, report to or appear to a local venue as directed.

Respondent shall claim all certified mail issued by the Board, respond to all notices of
reasonable requests timely, appear as requested by the Board, and submit Annual Reports,
Identification Update reports or other reports similar in nature, as requested and directed by the
Board or its representative. .

Respondent shall provide to the Board the names, physical work addresses, work mailing
addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of all employers, human resources personnel,

directors, managers, supervisors, and contractors, and any person providing direct supervision,

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

A & Ww N

Oo CO SN


and shall give specific, written consent that Respondent authorizes the Board and its
representatives and the employers, human resources personnel, directors, managers, supervisors,
and contractors, and any person providing direct supervision, to communicate regarding
Respondent's work status, performance, and monitoring. Monitoring includes, but is not limited
to, any violation or potential violation of any probationary term and condition.

Respondent is encouraged to contact the Board’s Probation Program at any time she has a
question or concern regarding her terms and conditions of probation.

4. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS All costs incurred for probation monitoring

during the entire probation shall be paid by Respondent. The monthly cost may be adjusted as
expenses are reduced or increased. Respondent’s failure to comply with all terms and conditions
may also cause this amount to be increased. Probation monitoring costs will not be tolled.

All payments for costs are to be sent directly to the Respiratory Care Board and must be
received by the date(s) specified. (Periods of tolling will not toll the probation monitoring costs
incurred.)

If Respondent is unable to submit costs for any month, she shall be required instead to
submit an explanation of why she is unable to submit the costs, and the date(s) she will be able to
submit the costs including payment amount(s). Supporting documentation and evidence of why
Respondent is unable to make such payment(s) must accompany this submission.

Respondent understands that failure to submit costs timely is a violation of probation and
submission of evidence demonstrating financial hardship does not preclude the Board from
pursuing further disciplinary action. However, Respondent understands that by providing
evidence and supporting documentation of financial hardship it may delay further disciplinary
action.

In addition to any other disciplinary action taken by the Board, an unrestricted license will
not be issued at the end of the probationary period and the respiratory care practitioner license
will not be renewed, until such time all probation monitoring costs have been paid.

The filing of bankruptcy by Respondent shall not relieve Respondent of her responsibility

to reimburse the Board for costs incurred.


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

Oo fo YN


5. EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENT Respondent shall be employed a minimum of 24

hours per week as a respiratory care practitioner for a minimum of 2/3 of her probation period.

Respondent may substitute successful completion of a minimum of 30 additional
continuing education hours, beyond that which is required for license renewal, for each eight (8)
months of employment required. Respondent shall submit proof to the Board of successful
completion of all continuing education requirements. Respondent is responsible for paying all
costs associated with fulfilling this term and condition of probation.

6. NOTICE TO EMPLOYER Respondent shall be required to inform all current and

subsequent employers, directors, managers, supervisors, and contractors during the probation
period, of the discipline imposed by this Decision by providing her current and subsequent human
resources personnel, directors, managers, supervisors, and contractors with a complete copy of
the Decision and Order, and the Accusation in this matter prior to the beginning of or returning to
employment or within three (3) days from each change in a supervisor or director.

The employer will then inform the Board, in writing, that s/he is aware of the discipline, on
forms to be provided to Respondent. Respondent is responsible for contacting the Board to
obtain additional forms if needed. All reports completed by the employer must be submitted from
the employer directly to the Board.

| In addition, any employer, director, manager, supervisor or contractor, shall report to the
Board immediately, within 24 hours, if s/he suspects Respondent is under the influence of alcohol
or any substance or has had any occurrence of substance abuse.

7. SUPERVISOR QUARTERLY REPORTS Supervisor Quarterly Reports of

Performance are due for each year of probation and the entire length of probation from each
employer, as follows:
° For the period covering January 1st through March 31st, reports are to be
completed and submitted between April Ist and April 7th.
e For the period covering April 1st through June 30th, reports are to be completed
and submitted between July Ist and July 7th.

/Tl

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

BP W bv


1]

° For the period covering July 1st through September 30th, reports are to be
completed and submitted between October 1st and October 7th.
° For the period covering October Ist through December 31st, reports are to be
completed and submitted between January 1st and January 7th.
Respondent is ultimately responsible for ensuring her employer(s) submits complete and
timely reports.

8. CHANGES OF EMPLOYMENT OR RESIDENCE Respondent shall notify the

Board, and appointed probation monitor, in writing, of any and all changes of employment,
location, and address within three (3) days of such change. This includes but is not limited to
applying for employment, termination or resignation from employment, change in employment
status, and/or change in supervisors, administrators or directors.

Respondent shall also notify her probation monitor AND the Board IN WRITING of any
changes of residence or mailing address within three (3) days. P.O. Boxes are accepted for
mailing purposes, however Respondent must also provide her physical residence address as well.

9. COST RECOVERY Respondent shall pay to the Board a sum not to exceed the costs

of the investigation and prosecution of this case. That sum shall be $7,205.00 and shall be paid in
full directly to the Board, in equal monthly payments, over the course of the period of probation, |
unless a Petition to Revoke Probation, an Accusation and Petition to Revoke Probation, a Petition
for Interim Suspension Order, or Cease Practice Order is filed against Respondent, as set forth
below. Cost recovery will not be tolled.

If Respondent is unable to submit costs timely, she shall be required, instead to submit an
explanation of why she is unable to submit these costs in part or in entirety, and the date(s) she
will be able to submit the costs including payment amount(s). Supporting documentation and
evidence of why Respondent is unable to make such payment(s) must accompany this
submission.

Respondent understands that failure to submit costs timely is a violation of probation and
submission of evidence demonstrating financial hardship does not preclude the Board from

pursuing further disciplinary action. However, Respondent understands that by providing

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)



evidence and supporting documentation of financial hardship may delay further disciplinary
action. The entire sum of $7,205.00 or the unpaid balance, shall become immediately due and
payable to the Board upon the filing of a Petition to Revoke Probation, an Accusation and Petition
to Revoke Probation, a Petition for Interim Suspension Order, or a Cease Practice Order alleging
violation of any law(s) or condition(s) of probation against Respondent.

Consideration to financial hardship will not be given should Respondent violate this term
and condition, unless an unexpected AND unavoidable hardship is established from the date of
this order to the date payment(s) is due.

The filing of bankruptcy by Respondent shall not relieve Respondent of her responsibility
to reimburse the Board for these costs.

10. TOLLING FOR OUT-OF-STATE RESIDENCE OR PRACTICE Periods of

residency or practice outside California, whether the periods of residency or practice are
temporary or permanent, will toll the probation period but will not toll the obey all laws, quarterly
reports, probation monitoring program, probation monitoring costs, or cost recovery
requirements. Travel out of California for more than 30 days must be reported to the Board in
writing prior to departure. Respondent shall notify the Board, in writing, within three (3) days,
upon her return to California and prior to the commencement of any employment where

representation as a respiratory care practitioner is/was provided.

11. VALID LICENSE STATUS Respondent shall maintain a current, active and valid
license for the length of the probation period. Failure to pay all fees and meet CE requirements

prior to her license expiration date shall constitute a violation of probation.

12. VIOLATION OF PROBATION If Respondent commits a “Major Violation,” as
identified in the Disciplinary Guidelines, incorporated by reference pursuant to California Code
of Regulations, title 16, section 1399.374, she shall receive a notice to cease the practice of
respiratory care, as directed by the Board. The Board shall attempt to contact Respondent by
electronic and/or telephonic means to advise her of the notice to cease practice and shall deliver
such notice by certified and regular mail. The Board shall update its licensing database to reflect

the status of the license.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

a DBD Wn & WW

I]

If Respondent is ordered to cease practice, she may file a written appeal, within 10 days of
the date of the notice to cease practice, to provide additional evidence disputing the finding of the
violation(s) that was cause for the notice to cease practice. The Executive Officer will review the
appeal and make a determination in the matter, within 10 days from the date the written appeal
and all supporting evidence or documentation is received. The probationer shall be notified of the
outcome by certified mail.

Respondent shall not resume the practice of respiratory care until a final decision on an
Accusation and/or Petition to Revoke Probation is made or until such time as the Board delivers
written notification that the notice to cease practice has been dissolved. The cessation of practice
shall not apply to the reduction of the probationary time period.

The Board will contact Respondent and her employers, human resources personnel,
directors, managers, supervisors, and contractors and notify them that Respondent has been issued
a notice to cease practice.

In addition, if Respondent violates any term of the probation in any respect, the Board, after
giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke probation and carry out the
disciplinary order that was stayed.

If a Petition to Revoke Probation is filed against Respondent during probation, the Board
shall have continuing jurisdiction and the period of probation shall be extended until the matter is
final. No petition for modification of penalty shall be considered while there is an Accusation or
Petition to Revoke Probation or other penalty pending against Respondent.

13. SURRENDER OF LICENSE Following the effective date of this Decision, if

Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement, health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, she may request the voluntary surrender of her license.
The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion
whether or not to grant the request or to take any other action deemed appropriate and reasonable
under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, within 15 calendar days
Respondent shall deliver her wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its designee and she shall

no longer practice respiratory care. Respondent will no longer be subject to the terms and

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

f



conditions of probation and surrender of Respondent’s license shall be deemed disciplinary
action. If Respondent re-applies for a respiratory care license, the application shall be treated as a
petition for reinstatement of a revoked license.

14. COMPLETION OF PROBATION Upon successful completion of probation,

Respondent’s license shall be fully restored.

15. RESTRICTION OF PRACTICE Respondent may not be employed or function as a

member of respiratory care management or supervisory staff during the entire length of probation.
This includes lead functions. Respondent is prohibited from working as part of a transport team.
Respondent is also prohibited from providing instruction or supervision to respiratory care
students or applicants whether in a clinical or classroom setting.

Respondent is prohibited from working in home care or for a registry.

16. DIRECT SUPERVISION During the period of probation, Respondent shall be under

the direct supervision of a person holding a current and valid non-restricted Board license, who
has not previously been disciplined by the Board. Respondent shall not have a financial,
personal, or familial relationship with the licensee, or other relationship that could reasonably be
expected to compromise the ability to provide supervision and render impartial and unbiased
reports to the Board.

Respondent shall be required to provide a copy of the Statement of Issues or Accusation
and decision in this matter and the person providing direct supervision shall inform the Board in
writing that she is aware of the discipline. “Under the direct supervision” means assigned to a
respiratory care practitioner who is on duty and immediately available in the assigned patient
area. The Board shall be informed in writing of and approve the persons authorized to provide
supervision and the level of supervision prior to the commencement of work.

Respondent shall be required to submit to the probation monitor work schedules on a
weekly/monthly basis for the length of probation and identify who is providing supervision for
each shift. Respondent shall ensure the Board has a copy of her current work schedule
identifying supervisor(s) at all times for each place of employment.


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)


o Oo NN


In addition to completing supervisor quarterly reports, any employer, director, manager,
supervisor or contractor, shall report to the Board immediately, within 24 hours, if s/he suspects
Respondent is under the influence of alcohol or any substance or has had any occurrence of

substance abuse.

ACCEPTANCE

I have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
discussed it with my attorney, Elizabeth M. Brady, Esq. I understand the stipulation and the
effect it will have on my Respiratory Care Practitioner License. I enter into this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be

bound by the Decision and Order of the Respiratory Care Board.

DATED: 4/23/2020 Loewe PaartlZ

LOUISE MITSUKO BAA@TZ, R.C.P.
Respondent

I have read and fully discussed with Respondent Louise Mitsuko Baartz, R.C.P., the terms
and conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary

Order. I approve its form and content.


Ca

DATED: April 24, 2020

‘ELIZABETH M. BRADY, ESQ.
‘Attorney for Respondent


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

ENDORSEMENT

The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Respiratory Care Board.

DATED: April 24, 2020

$D2019505515

Respectfully submitted,

XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of California
ALEXANDRA M. ALVAREZ
Supervising Deputy Attorney General

CHRISTINE A. RHEE
Deputy Attorney General
Attorneys for Complainant


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (7002019000643)

