OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2559

rT

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No, 21-7212-1

‘Complaint Against:
GUIDO ALBERT TORRES, M.D., FILED
Respondent. MAR - 4 2021

NEVADA STATE BOAI
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

COMPLAINT
The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel and attomey for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Guido Albert Torres, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions of
‘Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and
allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a Medical Doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 6294). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on July 1, 1991.

rs Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is
disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On March 7, 2016, Patient presented to Respondent for a preoperative visit, where
she consented to the following medical procedures: laparscopy, hysteroscopy, and D & C, and was
given a urine pregnancy test as ordered by Respondent. A review of the pre-operative History &
Physicial Report, which the Respondent dictated on March 15, 2016, indicates that Respondent
ae

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal Complaint
‘was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Victor M. Muro, M.D., Chairman, Rachakonda D.
Prabhu, M.D., and Ms. Sandy Peltyn

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(C75) 688-2559

ut
13,


did not include information regarding, nor assessment of, Patient A’s reproductive status prior to
surgery.

4. On March 16, 2016, Respondent attempted to perform the aforementioned
procedures at Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center. After performing a disgnostic laparoscopy,
Respondent attempted several times to remove an endometrial mass without success. Respondent
performed a endometrial curettage and the surgery ended. Despite previously ordering the
pregnancy test during the preop visit, Respondent was not aware of Patient A’s positive test
results as he proceeded to perform the surgery upon Patient A. Subsequently to learning the
positive pregnancy test, Respondent ordered a serum pregnancy test from the blood drawal at the
pte-op visit. Respondent’s History & Physicial Update form does not include any information
regarding Patient A’s reproductive status,

COUNT
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

5. Alllof the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

7. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

8. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
he provided medical services to Patient A, because Respondent failed to assess her reproductive
status prior to surgery despite ordering a pregnancy test.

9. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

vi
wa
a

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2589

u


COUNT II
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

10. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

11. NRS 630,3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

12. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when he treated Patient A.
Therefore, Patient A’s medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete, because
Respondent failed to appropriately document Patient A’s reproductive status through
acknowledgement of the positive pregnancy test and providing an assesstment within the medical
records.

13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IN
(NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation)

14. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

15. Violation of a standard of practice established by regulation of the Board is
grounds for imitating disciplinary action pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2).

16. NAC 630.210 requires a physician to seek consultation with another provider of
health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation may enhance the
quality of medical services

17. Respondent failed to timely seek consultation with regard to Patient A’s medical
conditions and Respondent should have consulted with an appropriate care provider to address the
doubtfulness of the diagnosis of this condition, and such a consultation would have confirmed or

denied such a diagnosis.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2859

i



WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
matter as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this Bn of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

» ael—

Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

rt

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OFCLARK

Victor M. Muro, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 3d day of March, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

UM Meri

Victor M. Muro, M.D., Chairman

By:

