Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-9314-1

Against: FI LE D

ROBERT JAY FUTORAN, M.D., JUN 14 2021

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MiPACAL EXAMINERS
By: Dome oat.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Robert Jay Futoran, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 5253). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on June 29, 1985.

2. On May 6, 2015, Respondent was advised by Mountainview Hospital via letter that
his privileges to practice medicine at their facilities was temporarily suspended by the hospital
pending an investigation.

3. On May 19, 2015, the Medical Executive Committee (MEC) of the hospital
performed a review and issued a recommendation for revocation of Respondent’s hospital

privileges. However, in an effort of compromise, the hospital agreed not to revoke his privileges

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Ms. Sandy
Peltyn and Victor M. Muro, M.D..

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



if Respondent voluntarily abstained from exercising his privileges pending their review and
investigation, to which Respondent accepted the offer.

4. On May 19, 2015, Respondent submitted his renewal application to practice
medicine to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board). In this renewal application

there are questions that specifically asks all applicants:

1. Have you been: a) asked to respond to an_ investigation;
b) notified that you were under investigation for; c) investigated
for; d) charged with; or e) convicted of any violation of a statute,
rule or regulation governing your practice as a physician by any
medical licensing board, hospital, medical society, governmental
entity or agency other than the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners? (Emphasis added).

2. Have you had hospital staff privileges denied, suspended, limited,
revoked or not renewed by the hospital, including any and all
resignations from any medical staff in lieu of disciplinary or
administrative action? (Emphasis added).

Respondent answered “N” (no) to both questions on the application. Although, on the date
Respondent submitted his application, May 19, 2015, he had notice of the investigation and of
having his privileges suspended at Mountainview Hospital; as evidenced by the letters received
from the hospital and the subsequent agreement that was entered into by the Respondent not to
exercise his privileges until the investigation was complete.

COUNT I
NRS 630.304(1) - Misrepresentation in Renewing License

5. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated
by reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS 630.304(1) provides that renewing a license to practice medicine by bribery,
fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement
constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action or denying licensure.

7. Respondent renewed his license to practice medicine by fraud and
misrepresentation and by a false, misleading, inaccurate and incomplete statement by answering

“N” (no) to the following question on his 2015 Nevada medical license renewal application:


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


1. Have you been: a) asked to respond to an _ investigation;
b) notified that you were under investigation for; c) investigated for;
d) charges with; or e) convicted of any violation of a statute, rule or
regulation governing your practice as a physician by any medical licensing
board, hospital, medical society, governmental entity or agency other than
the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners?

2. Have you had hospital staff privileges denied, suspended, limited,
revoked or not renewed by the hospital, including any and all resignations
from any medical staff in lieu of disciplinary or administrative action?

8. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this _//”" day of June, 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

L\

DON D K. WHITE, J.D., Deputy General Counsel
Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Victor M. Muro, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this //“day of _a7e- 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

LJ M Medd rs

Victor M. Muro, M.D., Chairman

By:


