[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89821
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 23-19611-1
Against: FILED
KEVIN C. PETERSEN, M.
JUN 20 2024
Respondent, NEVADA SJATEBOARD OF
MEDI (MINERS.
By: —
F FACT, CONCLUSION: W, AND ORDER

This case was presented for adjudication and decision before the Nevada State Board of |
Medical Examiners (Board), during a regularly scheduled Board meeting on June 7, 2024, at
8:35 a.m. (Pacific Standard Time), located at 9600 Gateway Drive, Reno, NV 89521, video
conferenced to 325 E. Warm Springs Road, Suite 225, Las Vegas, NV 89119. Kevin C. Petersen,
M.D., (Respondent) was properly served with a notice of the adjudication, including the date,
time, and location. Respondent was not present personally or through an attorney. The
adjudicating members of the Board participating in these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law
and Order were: Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G., Bret W. Frey, M.D., Ms. Maggie Arias-
Petrel, Aury Nagy, M.D., Col. Eric D, Wade, USAF (Ret.), Carl N. Williams, Jr., M.D., FACS,
Joseph Olivarez, P.A.-C, and Jason B Farnsworth, RRT. Henna Rasul, Esq., Senior Deputy
Attomey General, served as legal counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the formal Complaint (Complaint) and exhibits
admitted at the hearing of this matter, the Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations,' and
the transcript of the hearing, made its decision pursuant to its authority and provisions of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), NRS Chapter 622A, and
NRS Chapter 233B, as applicable.

' The Hearing Officer's Findings and Recommendations were prepared by Charles B. Woodman, Esq., who
was appointed as Hearing Officer under NRS 630.106 in this matter and presided over the hearing.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER in this matter, as follows:
DINGS OF FACT
L

Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada issued by the Board
from December 15, 2000, to June 30, 2023.


On June 16, 2023, the Investigative Committee filed a formal Complaint in
Case No, 23-1961 1-1, alleging Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. The Complaint was
mailed to Respondent by certified mail with return receipt requested at his last known address in
Las Vegas, Nevada, and was retumed undelivered. Pursuant to NRS 630.344, if a Complaint
cannot be served on Respondent personally, or by registered or certified mail with return receipt
requested, addressed to the Respondent at his or her last known address, the Board shall cause
notice to be published once a week for four (4) consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the
county of the last known address of the licensee or, if no newspaper is published in that county,
then in a newspaper widely distributed in that county. Respondent was served with the Complaint
by publication in Nevada Legal News, a daily newspaper published in Las Vegas, Clark County,
Nevada, on July 25, 2023, August 1, 2023, August 8, 2023, August 15, 2023, and
August 22, 2023.

The formal Complaint alleges six (6) violations of the Medical Practice Act that constitutes
grounds for imitiating disciplinary action against a licensee, as follows: five (5) counts of|
NRS 630.3065(2)(a), Knowing and Willful Failure to Comply with Investigative Committee
Order and one (1) count of NRS 630.306(1)(j), Failure to Timely Notify the Board of a Change of
Permanent Address.

Respondent did not answer or file a response to the allegations set forth in the Complaint.
Pursuant to NAC 630.460(4), the allegations of the Complaint are deemed generally denied if an

answer is not filed.

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

TL.

A Notice and Order Scheduling Early Case Conference was filed on October 2, 2023,
scheduling the Early Case Conference for the pending matter for October 5, 2023, at 10:00 a.m.
This Order was mailed via U.S. Certified Mail, postage pre-paid, to Respondent's address of |
record, and was returned undelivered. A copy was also emailed to Respondent, at his email of
record with the Board, on October 2, 2023.

On October 5, 2023, Hearing Officer Charles B. Woodman, Esq., conducted a telephonic
Early Case Conference in this matter. William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel,
(Mr. Shogren) was present on behalf of the Investigative Commuttee (IC). Respondent did not
participate in the proceeding, nor did he contact the Board, IC, or Hearing Officer regarding the
proceeding. At the scheduled Early Case Conference, Hearing Officer Woodman set the date for
the Prehearing Conference, the deadline for the parties to exchange lists of witnesses and
documents, and the date for the Hearing.

On October 12, 2023, in compliance with NAC 630.465, a Scheduling Order setting the
Prehearing Conference and Hearing was filed. Pursuant to that Order, the Prehearing Conference
was set for December 5, 2023, at 2:00 p.m. The Scheduling Order was sent to Respondent's
address on file with the Board via U.S. Certified Mail and was retuned undelivered. A copy was
also emailed to Respondent, at his email of record with the Board, on October 13, 2023.

On December 4, 2023, the IC’s Prehearing Conference Statement was sent to
Respondent’s address on file with the Board via Fed Ex Overnight Mail. A copy was also emailed
to Respondent, at his email address of record with the Board.

The Prehearing Conference was held telephonically as noticed and ordered, at which time,
legal counsel for the IC, Mr. Shogren, appeared. Neither the Respondent nor any representative of
the Respondent participated in the Prehearing Conference, nor did Respondent contact the Board,
IC, or Hearing Officer regarding the proceeding.

Iv.
On January 5, 2024, as duly noticed and ordered, a Hearing was held before the Hearing

Officer to receive evidence and to hear arguments of both parties. Legal counsel for the IC,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Mr. Shogren, appeared. Respondent did not attend the Hearing, nor did counsel appear on his
behalf, Mr, Shogren presented the IC’s case and offered Exhibits 1 through 21, which were
marked and admitted into evidence.

The Hearing Officer provided a Synopsis of Case and Recommendations to the Board,
which was filed March 15, 2024. This matter was scheduled for final adjudication on
June 7, 2024, at a regularly scheduled Board meeting.

On May 7, 2024, a notice of the adjudication, a copy of the Hearing Officer’s Findings and
Recommendations, and the hearing transcript was sent via USPS Certified Mail to Respondent’s
addresses of record and was returned as undeliverable. Copies of the same were also sent to
Respondent's email address of record on May 7, 2024.

A copy of the adjudication materials, as well as the Investigative Committee's
Memorandum of Costs and Disbursements and Attorney's Fees along with a copy of the Hearing
Officer's Findings and Recommendation was sent via USPS Certified Mail to Respondent’s
addresses of record and was retumed as undeliverable.

v.

Pursuant to NRS 622A.300(5)(a), the Findings and Recommendations of the Hearing
Offficer are hereby approved by the Board and are hereby specifically incorporated and made part
of this Order by reference. A copy of the Findings and Recommendations filed March 15, 2024,
in this matter are attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

vi.

The Board hereby finds that Counts I-VI, as set forth in the Complaint, and as

recapitulated in Paragraph II above, has been established by a preponderance of the evidence.
Vil.

If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law, it
may be so construed.
Wy
uw

ait
mgcsk
Eq
Bs

E


in


col F LAW
L

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent and the Complaint, and an adjudication of this

matter by the Board members as set forth herein is proper.
I.

Respondent was timely and properly served with the Complaint, and all notices and orders
in advance of the hearing and adjudication thereon, in accordance with NAC Chapter 630,
and NRS Chapters 630, 241, 622A and 233B, and all legal requirements of due process

m1.

With respect to the allegations of the Complaint, the Board concludes that Respondent has
violated the Medical Practice Act, as alleged in the Complaint, as follows: five (5) counts of
NRS 630.3065(2)(a), Knowing and Willful Failure to Comply with Investigative Committee
Order and one (1) count of NRS 630.306(1)(j), Failure to Timely Notify the Board of a Change of
Permanent Address. Accordingly, Respondent is subject to discipline pursuant to NRS 630.352.

Vv.

The Board finds that, pursuant to NRS_ 622.400, recovery from Respondent of reasonable
attomeys’ fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigation and disciplinary
proceedings against Respondent is appropriate. The Board has reviewed the Investigative
Committee's Memorandum of Costs and Disbursements and Attorneys’ Fees; and the Board finds
them to be the actual fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigative,
administrative and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, and finds them to be reasonable
and necessary based on: (1) the abilities, training, education, experience, professional standing
and skill demonstrated by Board staff and attomeys; (2) the character of the work done, its

difficulty, its intricacy, its importance, the time and skill required, the responsibi

imposed and
the prominence and character of the parties where, as in this case, they affected the importance of
the litigation; (3) the work actually performed by the Board’s attorneys and staff, and the skill,
time and attention given to that work; and (4) the product of the work and benefits to the Board

and the people of Nevada that were derived therefrom.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(075) 658-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

u


Vv.
If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of Fact, it
may be so construed.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(d), Respondent’s license to practice medicine is
hereby revoked, and in accord with NRS 622A.410(1), the Board hereby prescribes a period of
two (2) years during which the Respondent may not reapply for licensure in the State of Nevada;

2. Prior to reinstatement of his license, Respondent must first undergo a mental and
physical examination testing his competence to practice medicine and determine his fitness to
practice medicine, specifically addressing, but not limited to, an examination addressing the
presence of a substance use disorder and/or inability to practice medicine with reasonable skill and
safety due to the use of alcohol, drugs, narcotics or any other substance ;

3. Respondent is hereby ordered to reimburse the Board the reasonable and necessary
costs and expenses actually incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of
seven thousand two hundred fifty-six dollars and fifteen cents ($7,256.15), which amount
Respondent shall pay immediately in full upon reapplication for licensure in the State of Nevada;

4. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(e), a written public reprimand shall be issued to
Respondent; and
MW
ui
Mt
ut
Mt
“it

(775) 68-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

aw ken

oe 4

u
Pa

s Respondent's discipline shall be reported to the appropriate entities, including the
National Practitioner Databank (NPDB).

IT IS SO ORDERED.

DATED this 20th day of June, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: [aca WA
NICK. SPIRTOS/.D., F.A.C.0.G.
President of the Board

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

I certify that the foregomg 1s the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of KEVIN C. PETERSEN, M.D., Case No. 23-1961 1-1.

I further certify that Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G., is the President of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such;
and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of the said Nick M. Spirtos, M.D.,
FACOG.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this 20th day of June, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

By. __ Mogge Aaias—tecd,
MAGGIE ARIAS-PETREL
Secretary-Treasurer and Public Member of the Board

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
wer aweon


a

Ey


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

FILED
MAR 15 2024

NEVADA STATE BOAR(

IEDICAJ EXAMINE
In the Matter of Charges and } gy: eee

Complaint Against CASE NO.: 23-19611-1
KEVIN C. PETERSEN, M.D., }
Respondent. }

SYNOPSIS OF CASE AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE BOARD

‘The record in this case reveals that a formal Complaint charging Respondent Kevin C.
Petersen, M.D. with six counts of misconduct was filed in this matter and duly served upon
Respondent. Despite proper legal service of the Complaint and other appropriate
documentation upon Dr. Petersen, he did not file eny response to the Complaint or otherwise
respond. Following service of that Complaint, an Early Case Conference was noticed and
held, followed by a duly noticed Pre-Hearing conference, both pursuant to applicable
administrative law. Despite the diligence of the Investigative Committee (“IC”) of the Board
of Medical Examiners (“Board”) in serving documents and notices upon, and attempting to
communicate with Respondent, he failed to participate in administrative proceedings prior to
the formal hearing, and then he failed to appear at the formal hearing itself.

At the hearing, the Board and IC were represented by their Deputy General Counsel
William P, Shogren. Mr. Shogren called two witnesses to present the evidence for the IC's
case, namely Alexis Kent, and Johnna LaRue. The uncontested evidence presented is
summarized hereinbelow.

A. The Testimony of Alexis Kent

Ms. Kent is an investigator for the Board. She testified that in this case, the standard
Board procedure was followed whereby Respondent was duly served with an allegation letter
dated July 27, 2022, along with a Board Order to produce healthcare records of the same date.

wear anaen

u
1s



Those documents were mailed to Respondent's address on file with the Board. There was no
response from Respondent. A second round of documents was dispatched including a second
Order to produce healthcare records, but those also brought no response. It is noted that the
Board sent the documentation not only to Respondent's physical address, but also served him
via his email contact,

Ms. Kent testified generally as to the basis for other Complaints against Dr. Petersen
‘and the fact that he was non-responsive in those es well. She also testified that her
investigation revealed a new address for Respondent which was not on file with the Board.
‘On December 7, 2022, Ms. Kent did receive an email from Respondent which, although it did
not respond substantively to the Board’s communications, it did confirm that he was using the
new address discovered by Ms, Kent’

investigations.

Ms. Kent also testified that Respondent was given legally proper notice of an Order
issued by the IC requiring Dr. Petersen to appear before Dr. Mark Chase for a mental and
physical examination to determine whether Respondent was fit to practice medicine. Dr.
Petersen did not attend that examination, Respondent was also properly served with an Order
to appear before the IC to “discuss the matters” pending before the Board, as well as a
subsequent Order requiring him again to appear before Dr. Chase for an evaluation. But as
before Dr. Petersen failed to appear as ordered in each instance.

Finally, Ms. Kent testified that after multiple attempts to mail all notices and orders to
Respondent at three different addresses, (the one provided by Respondent to the Board, and
two others she discovered in her investigation), along with sending all such documents to
Respondent via email at the address he used in his one response to the Board, Ms, Kent went

the extra mile and attempted to serve all such documentation on Dr. Petersen personally at the
address on file with the Board, as well as the address she had discovered and he acknowledged
in his one email communication. Unfortunately, all Ms. Kent's “above and beyond” efforts
yielded nothing of substance from Dr. Petersen. He has simply failed to participate in this
Board process in any manner.

mw

B. The Testimony of Johnna LaRue

Ms. LaRue was then called as the Board's second and final witness. She has served
the Board and IC for many years and currently serves as the Deputy Chief of Investigations
and in that capacity she is a compliance officer for the Board, ensuring that licensees comport
with all Board-mandated requisites, Ms, LaRue testified that she contacted Dr, Mark Chase to
determine whether Dr. Petersen had appeared as ordered by the Board. He confirmed that
Respondent had not appeared for any appointments. Nor did Dr. Petersen ever communicate
with Ms, LaRue, Hence, itis confirmed that Dr. Petersen never responded in any substantive
way to the Board's requests for information, orto its Orders to provide documents and appear
on designated dates at specified times.

2 ‘onclusions

‘The allegations in the Complaint on file with the Board arc uncontested. The evidence
shows plainly that Respondent, who at one point acknowledged receiving Board documents
via his one email communication: 1) willfully failed to comply with the Board’s Order to
produce health care records; 2) willfully failed to comply with a sccond Order to produce
healthcare records; 3) failed to notify the Board of a change of his address; 4) failed to comply
with the Board’s Order to mect to discuss the pending case, 5) failed to comply with the
Board’s Order to appear before Dr. Chase to be examined, ai
Board's subsequent Order that he appear and be examined.

) failed to comply with the

‘There is no issue ns to credibility of witnesses. Both Ms. Kent and Ms. LaRue are
credible. Each of them gave articulate, matter of fact, reliable testimony. There is no reason
{o question the evidence they presented,

Accordingly, the undersigned Hearing Officer finds conclusively, and therefore
recommends to the Board, that it find that all six allegations in the Complaint on file are
proven and established, and that the Board cletermine the appropriate discipline based thereon.

DATED this 7S day of March, 2024.

5 | Tearmg Officer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

3.

Car anwaun

u
1s





CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

1 certify that on this day, I personally delivered or mailed, postage pre-paid, at Reno,

Nevada, a true file-stamped copy of the foregoing document addressed as follows:

WILLIAM P. SHROGEN, J.D.

Deputy General Counsel and Attorey for the Investigative Committe ofthe Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

KEVIN C. PETERSEN, M.D.
653 North Town Center, Suite 314

Las Vegas, NV 89144 9171 9690 0935 0241 6247 27
DATED this ah, of Mach 2024,

of Medical Examiners

