9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaints Case Nos, 23-28073-1 & 23-28073-2

FiLED
ORLANDIS LAMAR WELLS, M.D.,
Respondent. JUN 07 2024

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEI EXAMINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMBNT _

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Against:

(Board), by and through Donald K White, Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Orlandis Lamar Wells, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in

Nevada, assisted by his attorney, Maria Nutile, Esq., of the law firm of Nutile Law, hereby enter:

into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the followin;
A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada His license was originally issued on July 7, 2003 (License No 1058)

2. On November 16, 2023, in Case No. 23-28073-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges nine (9) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Counts I-1X); seven (7)
violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records (Counts X-XV1I);
ight (8) violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) Violation of Standards of Practice, (Counts XVUI-

* All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of ths matter and any
subsequent related administrate proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore.
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not mended or made for any other use, such as un the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or erimuval proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding. or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1of9

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


XXVI), cight (8) violations of NRS 630.306(1)(g) Continual Failure to exercise Skill or Diligence|
(Counts XXVII-XXXV).

3. On November 16, 2023, in Case No, 23-28073-2, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges four (4) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Counts I, V, IX, XIII); four
(4) violations of NRS 630.3062(1 Xa) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records (Counts 1, VI.
X, XIV); four (4) violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) Violation of Standards of Practice, (Counts:
Ill, VII, XI, XV); four (4) violations of NRS 630.306(1)(c) Unlawful Prescribing of Controlled
Substance or Dangerous Drug (Counts 1V, VIII, Xl, XVI) By reason of the foregoing.
Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

4, Respondent was properly served with a copy of both Complaints, has reviewed and
understands both Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaints.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding the admimstrative matters,
and of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints, Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in the administrative matters as sct out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Mecting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complamts, the right (o representation by counsel, at his}
‘own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and orders reflecting the final decisions of the Board, and the right to judicral review of the
Board's orders, if the decisions are adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board's charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's

license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
a

20f9

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board



administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right (o decide in tts own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, 1.¢., the matters
with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

Respondent 1s, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,
a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act

2 Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelli

ntly waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical

Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that

3of9

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,



‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521


may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints
filed in these matters, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth
in the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this
Agreement, without hearings or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed, As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven, Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have ment

and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearings and potential

subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving these matters and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve these Complaints pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, In Case No, 23-28073-1, Respondent admits to Counts I ~ IV, four (4)
violations of NRS 630.301(4); Counts X - XII], four (4) violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a); Counts:
XVIII ~ XX1, four (4) violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b\21; and Counts XXVII ~ XXX, four (4)

violations of NRS 630.306(1)(x)

b. In Case No. 23-28073-2, Respondent admits to Counts I, V, IX, and XII,
four (4) violations of NRS 630.301(4); and Counts IV, VIII, XI, and XVI, four (4) violations of
NRS 630 306(1)(c).

Ww

4of9

Nevada State Boatd of Medical Examiners
$600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 952)
(C78) 688-2559,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


¢. Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada shall be
revoked. The revocation is immediately stayed, and his license placed on probationary status for
twenty-four (24) months, from the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement
(Probationary Period), If the stay of revocation is lifted and Respondent's license is revoked
pursuant to this Agreement, Respondent, pursuant to NRS 622A.410, may not apply for a new
license for a period of one (1) year For the first twelve (12) months of the Probationary Period,
Respondent shall not petition the Board for early release from probation or its conditions.

4. During the Probationary Period, Respondent may not supervise any
physician assistants or collaborate with any advanced practice registered nurses. Within fourteen
(14) days from the Board's acceptance und adoption of this Agreement, Respondent shall
terminate any current supervising agreements with physician assistants and any current
collaboration agreements with advanced practice registered nurses.

After the first year of the Probationary Period, Respondent may petition the

Board for carly release from probation if he has complied with all of the terms of this Agreement

but only afler providing proof to the Board that he has successfully completed twenty-two (22)
hours of Continuing Medical Education (CME) related to the subject of best practices in
prescribing controlled substances and the PROBE program.

f During the Probationary Period, Respondent agrees to not reapply for a
license to prescribe controlled substances from the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy for at least
‘one year from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, and
not until he successfully completes 22 hours Continued Medical Education related to the subject
of best practices in prescribing controlled substances.

g. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of ten thousand three hundred forty-

seven dollars and sixty-five cents ($10,347.65) on or before August 7, 2024, contingent upon the

Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.
h. Respondent shall pay a fine of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in

twenty-four (24) equal monthly payments of one thousand forty-one dollars and sixty-seven cents}

Sof

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examinest
19600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 69521
(G5) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,





($1,041.67) beginning on September 7, 2024. The payment plan is based on the Board's
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

The Respondent shall perform twenty-two (22) hours of Continuing

Medical Education (CME) related to the subject of best practives in prescribing controlled
substances before he applies for a license to prescribe controlled substances from the Nevada State
Board of Pharmacy, and these CME hours shall be in addition to the required CMEs for licensure.

j. The Respondent shall enroll in and complete PROBE: Ethics and
Boundaries Program within his 24-month Probationary Period.

k. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

1. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

m. The remaining counts of the Complaints, any other claims arising from the
Board's corresponding investigative case files, as well as Investigative Case Nos. 17-17194 and
18-1774 shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel.
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers.
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of acttons,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, these investigations, this Agreement or the administration of the eases referenced
herein:

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

6of9

68.2589

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 69521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada Stare Board of Medical Examiners


resolution of these Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
mecting where this Agreement 1s discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agrecment, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to these matters. The IC and its counsel
agree that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear al the Board mecting where
this Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to
the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
aan order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained 1n this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seck the Board's acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering

these Complaints and from participating m disciphnary proceedings against Responden

Luding
adjudication of the cases; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seck to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agroement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

U1. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event cither party is

required to seck enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such


a
a
Zz
i]
Z
Fy
z
he
Po
i

i
i
z
i
i
iH
i

i
i
i

(C75) 688-2559

jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
bbe entitled to recover reasonable attorneys” fees and costs.

13, Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to ammedrately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, 1s a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a.
mW
Ve
Ww
Ww
ae
We
a
wa
vi
a
aa
wa
wa
Wt
Wa

uw

Bold

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Seate Board of Medical Bxarsines

‘9600 Gateway Deive

Reno, Nevada #9521,

(C75) 628-2559,

wane on

ow

Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this /S% day of, Mid 2024. DATED this 1B Gay of Mo { 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NUTILE LAW

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL,
S

By: 2 By:
DONAJAK. WHITE MARIA NUTILE, ESQ:

Senior Deputy General Counsel BRIDGET KELLY, ESQ.
9600 Gateway Drive 7395 S, Pecos Road, Suite 103
Reno, NV 89521

Las Vegas, NV 89120

Tel: (775) 688-2559 Tel: (702) 307-4880

Attorney for the Investigative Committee bridget@irmtilelaw.com
Attorneys for Respondent

dn
DATED this_A day of. “Ma S200,
1) ;
By: UU lALE

ORLANDIS LAMAR WELLS, M.D.,
‘Nevada License No. 10558
Respondent

90f9

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521,
(O75) 688-2559

"1


ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case Nos. 23-28073-1

and 23-28073-2) was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on

the 7th day of June, 2024.

DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL.
EXAMINERS

Let WA Fees
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D/, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

