Examiners

Nevada State Board of Medi
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521,

(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

a

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
keene
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case Nos. 23-39319-1
ron 23-39319-2
oe FILED
KASEY LAZJR ABANONU, M.D.,
Respondent. JUN G7 2024

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
et EXAMINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attomey
for the IC, and Kasey Lazjr Abanonu, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attormey, Sean M Kelly, Esq., of the law firm of McBride Hall, hereby enter into
this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on October 13, 2011 (License No. 14139).

2. On October 16, 2023, in Case No, 23-39319-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1), one (1) count of
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation — Failure to
Consult (Count II), and one (1) count of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal crvil or eriminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentraling or privileges matter,

lof

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


Medical Records (Count III). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by
the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. On October 16, 2023, in Case No. 23-39319-2, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complete alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1), and one (1) count
of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Count II). By reason of
the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of these Complaints, has reviewed
and understands these Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of these Complaints.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically, Respondent
has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the
Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which 1s
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These nghts include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between

Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the

20f8

'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

we

Yaw se

2B


Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,
a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation_by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and _Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelhgently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
ui

30f 8

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve these Complaints pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630 301(4),
Malpractice, and Count II one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of
Practice Established by Regulation — Failure to Consult in Case No. 23-39319-1

b. _ Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of ten thousand five hundred ninety-
five dollars and ninety-seven cents ($10,595.97). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned costs
and expenses by way of an initial payment of one thousand seven hundred sixty-six dollars and
two cents ($1,766.02) due on or before August 7, 2024, and then five (5) equal payments of one
thousand seven hundred sixty-five dollars and ninety-nine cents ($1,765.99) due on or before the
seventh day of each month thereafter, with the final payment due on or before February 7, 2025.
i

40f8

Reno, Nevada 89521
(778) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

~ aw eon

ul


The costs and expenses as well as the payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000). Respondent
shall pay the aforementioned fine by way of an initial payment of cight hundred thirty-three
dollars and thirty-five cents ($833.35) due on or before August 1, 2024, and then five (5) equal
payments of eight hundred thirty-three dollars and thirty-three cents ($833.33) due on or before
the seventh day of each month thereafter, with the final payment due on or before
February 1, 2025. This fine, as well as the payment plan, are subject to the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. Respondent shall perform six (6) hours of Continued Medical Education
(CME) related to the subject of best practices in critical care medicine, within six (6) months of
the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of
CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent
as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.153(1) and shall be
approved by the Board prior to their completion.

€. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

& Count III m Case No. 23-39319-1 and Counts I and II im
Case No. 23-39319-2, and any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative
case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,

committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,

Sof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(C75) 688-2859

ul

causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. dure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of these Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice

%. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this

Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering,

6 0f8

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

a)

Seocwryau

rt

25,

these Complaints and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event cither party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, 1s a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

WI
uw
wa
Ww
wt
vi
Wt
Ww
mw

70f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

ec ewraune

n

a

a

R

a

Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a!
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this {** day of_Wyes\ 2026. DATED tnis_7 day of _ hel. 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE, MCBRIDE HALL
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL,

EXAMINERS

or Aghig—__ gy,
WILLIAM P. SHOGREN . KELLY, ESQ.
Deputy General Counse! 8329 W. Sunset Road, Suite 260
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89113
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 792-5855
Email: shozrenwa gov Attorney for Respondent *

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this & day of Apsl 2024.

KASEY LAZJR ABANONU, MD.,
Nevada License No. 14139
Respondent

80f*

1 ORDER
2 || IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case Nos. 23-39319-1
3 |] and 23-39319-2) was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on
4 |] the 7th day of June, 2024,
5 DATED this 7th day of June, 2024,
6 NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,
A
8 py, _ Cte WM yobs
5 NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.Df, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President
a 10
Se rT
8 j 12
gsit au
Bgze
E 3 . 16
og
Bz 17
o 18
2B

