OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

15,

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 23-36566-1_
Against: FILED

‘TREVOR ANDREAS SCHMIDT, P.A.-C, JUN 07 2024

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
wy MENG EXAMINERS
yy. '

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Deonne E, Contine, General Counsel for the Board, and
Sarah A. Bradley, Deputy Executive Director for the Board, and attomeys for the IC, and Trevor
Andreas Schmidt, P.A.-C (Respondent), a licensed physician assistant in Nevada, assisted by his
attorney, Johnathon Fayeghi, Esq , of the law firm of Sklar Williams, PLLC, hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. BACKGROUND

1, Respondent is a physician assistant currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on May 12, 2010 (License No. PA1219)..

2. On February 21, 2023, in Case No. 23-36566-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) count of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1), one (1) count of|
NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records (Count II), one (1) count

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any’
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil Itigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another|
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or|
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1of7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

‘Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

a eon

aw

rT

of NRS 630.306(1)(e), Practicing Beyond the Scope of License (Count III), and one (1) count of|
NRS 630.306(1}(e), Competence. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline
by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the nght to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to wntten findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if|
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, mcluding license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.

wt

20f7

(C75) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners
'9600 Gateway Drive

a won

ce aw.dau

iT


Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician as

istant licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board
as set forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters’
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this|
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives|
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that!
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent

3 0f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway De
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(075) 688-2559

e4w 8

un
13,


2B

acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in’
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges|
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agrecing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential’
subsequent litigation, Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has|
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the!
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent!
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to!
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent!
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent does not admit to Counts I, II, and Il, NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice, NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records and
NRS 630.306(1)(e), Practicing Beyond the Scope of License, but Respondent acknowledges that
sufficient evidence may be presented at a hearing such that the Board could conclude that
Counts I, Il, and Ill were proven and he agrees to the Board entering a finding that he violated!
Counts I, II, and III as a part of this Agreement.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of fifteen thousand four hundred forty-
two dollars and forty-one cents ($15,442.41).

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) within one
hundred twenty (120) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement

4. Respondent agrees that he will not perform liposuction, or other cosmetic
procedures when under the supervision of a medical doctor unless the supervising medical doctor

is certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery.

40f7

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688.2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

iT
13,
at


¢. Respondent also agrees that he will not perform liposuction, or other,
cosmetic procedures under the supervision of a medical doctor until after he has completed ten!
(10) hours of continuing medical education (CME) related to best practices in pre-operative and!
post-operative care.

f This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as|
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

g Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

h. Count IV of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from the Board
investigative case file(s) 21-19802 and 23-2799 shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or

conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board

Sof7

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

iT


meeting where this Agreement 1s discussed, and that such contacts and communications may!
inchide, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the|
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agrcement shall be null, void and of no force and|
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contamed in this Agreement!
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering)
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including]
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seck to disqualify any!
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause, The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such!
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall

be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gazewny Deive

‘Reno, Nevada 89521,

(075) 0.2889

coer aueen

10}
iW
12 |
a

BSRREBR

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
ot condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a feilure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)().
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this GLE srey.a0 DATED this 9 day of May, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE SKLAR WILLIAMS, PLLC

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

DEONNE E. CONTINE
General Counsel 49 South Rampart Boulevard, Suite 350
SARAH A. BRADLEY, J.D, MBA Vegas, NV 89145
Deputy Executive Director Tel: (702) 360-6000
9600 Gateway Drive Email: jfayechi@sklar-law.com
Reno, NV 89521 Attorney for Respondent
Tel: (775) 688-2559
Email: dcontine@medboard.nv.gov
bradleys@medboard.nv.gov
Attorneys for the Investigative Committee

peer eeraet 2024.

By:

Nevada License No. PAI219
Respondent

70f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521

(775) 688-2559

u
w7

ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 23-36566-1)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the Ist day of

March, 2023.

DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL,
EXAMINERS

“Licte- Wh yt
NICK M. SPIRTOS;M.D/, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

