OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Boacd of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Deve
Reno, Nevada 99521

(C75) 658-2589

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint ‘Case No. 23-41719-1

re FILED
STEPHANIE ANN SHIBATA, PA-C, JUN 07 2024
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEGIICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

‘The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P, Shogren, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attomey’
for the IC, and Stephanie Ann Shibata, PA-C (Respondent), a licensed physician assistant in
Nevada, assisted by her attorney, Heather S. Hall, Esq., of the law firm of McBride Hall, hereby’
enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a physician assistant currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. Her license was originally issued on December 16, 2013 (License No. PA1480).

2. On November 15, 2023, in Case No. 23-41719-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1), and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records (Count 11).
wt

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges mater.

1of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 99521

(075) 6882589

15,

a





By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in
NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter,
and of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent
has certain rights in this adm

trative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the
Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order!
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if|
the decision is adverse to her.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the I

not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then.
ws

20f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 68.2559

aw ee

ex






the terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the|
Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein,

.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. t unsel/Knowiny ing_and_Intelligent_A;
Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
‘Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that
may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in’

the Complaint,

ind imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Boted of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 68-2559

ear aun eon

W


B



acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC's claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has

evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the

Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent

wail

s the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a Respondent admits to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of four thousand seventy-eight
dollars and seventy-four cents ($4,078.74). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned costs and
expenses in six (6) equal payments of six hundred seventy-nine dollars seventy-nine cents
(8679.79), with the first payment due on or before July 7, 2024, and each payment thereafter due
on or before the seventh day of each month, with the final payment due on or before
December 7, 2024. The costs and expenses as well as the payment plan are subject to the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

¢. Respondent shall pay a fine of three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500).
Respondent shall pay the aforementioned fine by way of an initial payment of five hundred
eighty-three dollars thirty-five cents ($583.35) due on or before July 7, 2024, and then five (5)
equal payments of five hundred eighty-three dollars thirty-three cents ($583.33) due on or before

the seventh day of each month thereafter, with the final payment due on or before

40f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
‘Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 686.2559

December 7, 2024. This fine, as well as the payment plan, are subject to the Board's acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. The Respondent shall perform four (4) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME) related to the subject of best practices in laboratory interpretation and four (4)
hours of CME related to the subject of best practices in patient communication, within six (6)
months of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. These eight (8)
hours of CME shall be in addition to the CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as.
condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1), and shall be
approved by the Board prior to their completion.

©. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

£ Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

8 Count Il of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from the Board's,
corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,

causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and

in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

Sof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examinest

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2559

wc ae ran evn

rt





resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of|
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudicatior

: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including,
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11, Forum Selection Clause, The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such

6o0f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Ren, Nevada 89521

(775) 68-2559


juris yn and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent, NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

“i
we
Wa
mM
mu
mu
mt
mw
WW
Mm
mu
mt
mt
Wi
we
mu

70f8

2624-64-05 06:11 POT - 417029386988

1 f] Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as 3

2 || condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts

4 |] DATED inis (4 aay of Aectl 2028, DATED this_J day of fil 2024,

5 |] INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE = MCBRIDE HALL.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL.

EXAMINERS
: ue
WILLIAM P. SHOGREN HEATHER S. HALL, ESQ
0 Deputy General Counsel 8329 W. Sunset Road, Suite 260
2 10 |} 9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89113,
a Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 792-5855
z 11} Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: ishall@mebridchall,com
af Email: shovrenw(émedboard.nv.gov ‘Attorney for Respondent
3 5 12 Attorney for the Investigative Commitee
ua
gE te 141 DATED this_S™ day of _ Agel 2024.
a | 16 | By: nuh Sepak PA-C
o3 STEPHANIE ANN SHIBATA, PA-C
gt 7 Nevada License No. PA1480
E t8|| Respondent

8ofk

PAGE 2/2

iy

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 23-41719-1)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521

(75) 688-2889

n



7th day of June, 2024.
DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

By:

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

Jeet Mh Fscelos—

NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D/, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

