OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Garewny Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(075) 656.2539

we en

Sc era


a


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Hoe

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No, 23-48593-1

Against: FILED

ABRILL MARIE JONES, M.D., JUN 07 2024
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
meDit A EXAMINERS
By aa
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attorney
for the IC, and Abrill Marie Jones, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted
by her attorney, Chelsea R, Hueth, Esq., of the law firm of McBride Hall, hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently ticensed and on inactive status by the
Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine
in Nevada. Her license was originally issued on July 16, 2018 (License No. 18096).

2. On November 17, 2023, in Case No. 23-48593-1, the IC filed # formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1), one (1) count
NRS 630,3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records (Count II), and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation Standards of Practice Established by Regulation =|

* All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. “Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such asin the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges mater.

lof?

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Sete Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 69521
(75) 68-2559

Pa

cer Aas




Consultation (Count II1). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the
Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
conceming the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter,
and of her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her’
‘own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the
Board's order, if the decision is adverse to her.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board's charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s|
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement of limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respiondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.

20f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical EXaminere

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,

(075) 658.2559

era uae ern

n
"7





B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1, Jurisdiction, Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject (o the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. — Representation_by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to’
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights, In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that

may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint

filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without « hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledges onable Bs

to Proceed. As of the time of entering.
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examinert

9600 Gateway Deve
Reno, Nevada 89521

(C75) 688.2559

wo eon

wero






Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, Respondent admits to Count II, onc (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a),
Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of five thousand six hundred sixty-
one dollars and seventy-five cents ($5,661.75). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned costs
and expenses by way of an initial payment of nine hundred forty three dollars and sixty-five cents
($943.65) due on or before August 7, 2024, and then five (5) equal payments of nine hundred
forty three dollars and sixty-two cents ($943.62) due on or before the seventh day of each month
thereafter, with the final payment due on or before February 7, 2025. ‘The costs and expenses as
well as the payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement.

©. Respondent shall pay a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) within sixty
(60) days of the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. The Respondent shall perform eight (8) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME) related to the subject of best practices in record keeping, within six (6) months
of the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. ‘These eight (8) hours of|
CME shall be in addition to the CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as a

40f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gatewsy Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521

(C15) 688.2559

TT
15,


condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1), and shall be approved
by the Board prior to their completion,

©. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f, Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand,

8. The remaining counts of the Complaint (Counts I and Ill), and any other
claims arising from the Board's corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with
prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the Slate of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees (o release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debis, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein,

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The [C and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

adjudi

ting members of the Board.
Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board

meeting where this Agreement is

iscussed, and that such contacts and communications may

Sof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

19600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(C75) 688.2559



include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8 Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not|
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
‘effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that ocours pursuant to efforts of the IC to seck the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith,

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board,

Il, Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such’

jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.
12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs, The part

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall

s agree that in the event an action is

be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

aw

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada Stace Board of Medical Examiners
‘600 Gaway Drive
Rena, Neveds 89521
(775) 685-2559

woe

Tt
2B

a

13, Eailure to Comply with Terms, Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

‘or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed,
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including fallure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a fallure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent, NRS 630.3065(2) (a).
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Bonrd for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts,

DATED this BO oy of Spal 2024, DATED this 2.0 aay orpril 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE, MCBRIDE HAI
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

WILLIAM B. SHOGREN,

Depuity General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: crhueth@mebridehall.com

Email: shogrenw@medboard.ny.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this 2 day of Aocs\ 2024.

Nevada License No. 18096
Respondent

Tof

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 23-48593-1)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(075) 658-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

7th day of June, 2024.

DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

By:

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

Lele HM Syaccbes—

NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D/, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

