OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada Stase Boeri of Medical Examiners

‘600 Gatcwny Deve
Reno, Nevada 89521,

(075 688-2859


uw
13,

a




BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Hk ee

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. reat LED
Against:

GARY ROYCE WISNER, M.D., JUN U2 2024
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEP EXAMINERS
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J Hinman, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
‘attorney for the IC, and Gary Royce Wisner, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attomey, Jessica R, Gandy, Esq., of the law firm of Hutchison & Steffen, PLLC,

hereby enter into this Settlernent Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:
A. BACKGROUND

L._Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
‘Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada, His license was originally issued on March 2, 1996 (License No. 7759).

2. On February 15, 2024, in Caso No. 24-11112+1, the IC filed a formal Complaint|
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630,301(3), Disciplinary Action by Another State
Medical Board (Count I), By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the
Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

" Ail ogreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related admiisteative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and adinissions are not intended of made for any other use, such as in tho context of another
stale or federal goverament regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, eny state oF
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter,

10f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada Sate Boar of Medical Examines

‘9600 Gascony Deve

‘Reo, Nevads 9571

(Ci) 658-259

wc eryraunaeen

1"

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
conceming the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regacding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint, Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is!
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the:
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses:
and evidence against him the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board's order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board's charge to protect the publie by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, Is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board's approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditlons enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board,
Wm

2of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nereda Ste Boas! of Medical Banners

19600 Gateway Deve

Rena, Nevada 9521

(7) 652559

wer avwa on





B, TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.c., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2 entation Ci pit nd_Ini
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this!
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
‘Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have @ full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights erising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations sot forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering |
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

3 of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Neri da Sate Boar of Medical Examiners

"3609 anny Deve

‘Reno, Nevada 9521

(7) 6-258

ce rane ene

Mt
B
4 |


BRR

Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to

effectuate this Agreement.
5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against)

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terns and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

4, Respondent admits to Count |, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301@3),
Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board.

b. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption, and approval of this Agreement in the amount of one thousand four hundred fifty-six’
dollars and seventy-eight cents ($1,456.78).

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000) in four (4)
‘equal payments of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250). The first payment shall be due
‘on or before September 5, 2024, the second payment is due on or before December 4, 2024, the
third payment is due on or before March 4, 2025, and the final payment is due on or before June 2,
2025. ‘This payment plan is subject to the Board's acceptance, adopt

Agreement.”
da Respondent's Medical License shall be suspended for a period of one (1)

, and approval of this

year, commencing on the date of the Board's approval of this Settlement Agreement,
(“Suspension Period”).
©. Respondent shall successfully complete a competency course approved by

the Board to assess his competence and ability to practice medicine pursuant to NRS 630.352, no

4o0f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nerds See Board of Medica Beaminers

19600 Gascony Drive

Revo, Nevada 69531

(C5) 6.2559

sooner than ninety (90) days before the suspension period has expired.
f. Effective one (1) year from the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement, and contingent on compliance with the suspension provisions of this
agreement, Respondent shall be on probation for a period of two (2) years (“Probation Period”),
commencing at the date of the expiration of the Suspension Period.
& For the duration of the Probation Period, Respondent shall have chart
monitoring from a Board approved service as follows:

i, Year one (1) of the Probation Period shall require 25% of patient
charts to be monitored on a monthly basis, and the monitor must report monthly directly to the|
Board.

i, Year two (2) of the Probation Period shall require 10% of patient}
charts to be monitored on a monthly basis, and the monitor must report monthly directly to the
Board.

h. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as;
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.
i. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand,
J. Any and all other cleims arising from the Board's corresponding
investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.
6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,

investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune ftom civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board, NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to telcase the State of
Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and

‘unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against

any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,

5o0f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Boas of Medical Beamniness

‘500 Gatewy Dive

Reno, Nevada S952

(75) 688-2559

eer awe ene


a
a

or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The {C and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in.
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval und adoption of|
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board,

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that|
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
‘Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC's counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed

and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and|
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board's acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering

this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any

such member absent evidence of bad faith.

6 0f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Sete Board of Medical Examines

‘60 Gntcwng Drive

Reno, Nevada 8952

(78) 68-2589


rt

a

m4

10, Binding Effect. {f approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is « binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11, Forum Selection Clanse. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12, Attorneys’ Kees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall

be entitled to recover reasonable attomeys’ fees and costs.
13. allure ¢o Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by

the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondents license to practice

medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

expenses or foes owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Mm

Mm

mt


mt

mt

Ww

mt

mt

us


mW

Toft?

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[evade Sate Board of Medical amines

‘9600 Casey Deve

Reno, Nevada 9251

(5) 682559

cer AaAuneen

1"

a


Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment fo the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts,
DATED this 21 ay of Month, 2024, DATED ie day of, Aase0,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE = HUTCHISON & STEFFEN, PLLC
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL.

EXAMINERS

or Melb be — s
ALEXANDER J. HINMAN (E85

Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521

‘Tel: (702) 385-2500
75) 688-2559 ‘Email: jgandy@hutchlegal.com

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED thie A day ot Tach 2024,

By:

Attorney for Respondent

“GARY ROYCE WISNER, MD,
Nevada License No. 7759
Respondent

8 of!

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(75) 688-2589

1 RDE}

2 ||IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-11112-1)
3 || was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the
4 |) 7th day of June, 2024,

5 DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

6 NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL

7 EXAMINERS

8 py, _ Cee HA Tact —

5 NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D7, F.A.C.0.G.

Board President



