OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688-2559

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint ‘Case No. 24-28841-1 and 24-28841-2

Against: FILED

POUYA MOHAJER, M..

SEP 13 2024

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through lan J. Cumings, Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Pouya Mohajer, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attorney, Paul C. Williams, Esq , of the law firm of Bailey Kennedy, LLP, hereby
enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A, BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
‘Nevada. His license was originally issued on March 12, 2004 (License No 10841).

2 On May 9, 2024, in Case No. 24-28841-1, the IC filed a Formal Complaint
(Complaint 1) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically,
Complaint I alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1); one (1) violation
of NRS 630.306(1\(f), Lack of Informed Consent (Count II); and one (1) violation of
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records (Count III). Additionally, on

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal goverment regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(C75) 688.2559

15,


May 9, 2024, in Case No. 24-28841-2, the IC filed a second Formal Complaint (Complaint 11)
charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, Complaint II alleges
one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1); one (1) violation of NRS
630.306(1)(f), Lack of Informed Consent (Count 11); and one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1}(a)
Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records (Count III). Complaints | and I are herein referred to
collectively as the “Complaints.” By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline
by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaints, has reviewed and
understands the Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaints.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding the administrative matters,
and of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in the administrative matters as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at his
‘own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order reflecting the final decisions of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the
Board’s orders, if the decisions are adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board's charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between

Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the

20f7

~awee

ad

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
19600 Gateway Drve
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688.2559

Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions.

1 Juri

iction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,
a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing _and_Intelligent_Agreement

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel and wishes to resolve the matters

addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this

Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent

agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with the administrative matters. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
My

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

"1
13,

Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this
‘Agreement, without hearings or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve these matters to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if these matters were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving the matters and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaints pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count Il, one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(9)
Lack of Informed Consent, as alleged in Complaint |

b. Respondent admits to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(1)
Lack of Informed Consent, as alleged in Complaint II.

©. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in th

estigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matters within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of six thousand nine hundred five dollars
and sixty-one cents ($6,905.61).

d. Respondent shall pay a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) within sixty
(60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.
a

40f7

Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive

uN




e The Respondent shall perform ten (10) hours of Continued Medical
Education (CME): with five (5) of these hours related to medical ethics, and five (5) hours related
to medical record keeping, within six (6) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance.
adoption, and approval of this agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME are in addition to
the CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in
the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.153(1).

f. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

g. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand,

h. The remaining counts of the Complaints, and any other claims arising from
the Board's corresponding investigative case files, shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against

any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of.

or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the cases referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

adjudicating members of the Board.

Sof?

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

u

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the cases shall be
closed and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice.

%. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and

effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudicatio

: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seck the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
these Complaints and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of these cases; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board

11, Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party"s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.
Ww

6 of7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Media! Exrniners

‘3600 Gateway Deve

Reno, Nevada $952.

(75) 88-2559

oe a aw eww

u



a

12, Attorneys’ Rees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys? fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
‘ condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.
DATED this ES day of, ie. . DATED this_25 day of he, 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BAILEY KENNEDY, LLP
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL

EXAMINERS

By: oy. Pt lll
TAN J. CUMINGS PAUL. WILLIAMS, ESQ.
Senior Deputy General Counsel 8984 Spanish Ridge Avenue
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89148
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 562-8820
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Em iii

Email: icumings@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Daly

DATED this -2Y day of Janay, 2024.

By: GS
POUYA MOHAIER, MD.

‘Nevada License No. 10841
Respondent


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(075) 685-2559

ORD!
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-28841-1
and 24-28841-2) was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on
the 13th day of September, 2024.
DATED this 13th day of September, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS:

py: _ Le HA pacts
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.
Board President

