0408/2024 09:14 (FAX) P 002/009

1 BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
2 OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
3 fee ee
5 || In the Matter of Charges and Complaint ‘Case No. 24-240-1
6 | Against FILED
7|| JOSEPH PATRICK EAFRATE, PA-C, JUN 07 2024
; Respondent, sion STATE Bono
10 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
iu The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

12 |} Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
13 || attomey for the IC, and Joseph Patrick Eafrate, PA-C (Respondent), a licensed physician in
14 || Nevada, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

15} A. BACKGROUND

16 1. Respondent is a physician assistant currently licensed in active status by the Board
17 |] pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
18 || Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
19 || Nevada. His license was originally issued on July 25, 1995 (License No. 482).

20 2 On January 30, 2024, in Case No. 24-240-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint]
21 || (Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
22 || Complaint alleges ove (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I). By reason of the|
23 || foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352,

24 di

25 ///

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medica! Beaminene
‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevads S521
(75) 8-2359

2 " Atl agreoments and admissions made by Respondont are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative procecdings or civil litigntion involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
28 || Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal goverunent regulatory agency proceeding, stte or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any stato oF
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1ofs

04/08/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Mesical Exaesiness

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reena, Read 89528

(75) 82599

09:14 (Fax) P.003/008

coer anenun

rT

R83



3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and hes had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the

Preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses.
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
ial review of the Board’s order, if|

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between!
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
wt
Wy

20f8

04/08/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Sea Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Deve

Reno, Nevada 521

(C15) 8.2559

09:15 Fax) 004/008

ec eranaern

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.c., the matters

with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

Respondent acknowledges he is not represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein without counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
forgo a fall consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel,

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevads Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that

may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.
4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven, Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduet that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f8

04/08/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevade State Beant of Medical Exarninecs

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Neveds 9521,

(075) 68289

09: 15 (Fax) 005/009

ween

we er.)|a

u
13,





Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, _ Respondent admits to Count I, violation of NRS 630,301(4), Malpractice,

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of three thousand one hundred
eighty-three dollars and seventy-six cents ($3,183.76). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned
costs and expenses by way of an initial payment of two hundred sixty-five dollars and thirty-five!
cents ($265.35) due on or before August 7, 2024, and then eleven (11) equal payments of two!
hundred sixty-five dollars and thirty-one cents ($265.31) due on or before the seventh day of each
‘month thereafter, with the final payment due on or before August 7, 2025. The costs and expenses|
as well as the payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement,

©. Respondent shall pay a fine of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).
Respondent shall pay the aforementioned fine by way of an initial payment of two hundred eight
dollars and thirty-seven ($208.37) due on or before August 7, 2024, and then eleven (11) equal
payments of two hundred eight dollars and thirty-three ($208.33) due on or before the seventh day
of each month thereafter, with the final payment due on or before August 7, 2025. This fine, as
well as the payment plan, are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement,

40f8

48/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Seate Board of Medical Rnaraioere

‘9608 Gotewny Drive

Reno, Nevada 5521,

(C15) 68-2539

09:15 (Fax) P 006/008

Cer anno n

ct





The Respondent shall perform four (4) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME) related to best practices when prescribing medication within one (1) year of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME
shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a
condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630,153(1) and shall be approved
by the Board prior to their completion.

. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f, Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

g Any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative case
file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

h Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent
understands and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff,
‘counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants
and agents are immune from civil lability for any decision or action taken in good faith in
Tesponse to information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release
the State of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts,
peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons, government agencies or entitios named in this
paragraph arising out of, or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration
of the case referenced herein.

6 Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of|
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board,

Soff

0408/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Bearainere

980 Gateway Deve

Rene, Nevada 2352.

(C75) 68-2559

09:15 (FAX) 007/008

cms nanan

n

a

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board)
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter, The IC and its counsel agree that.
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC's counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

8. Effect of Refection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not’
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering.
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including.
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shalll not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is « binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

10. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seck enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

“i

60f8

04/08/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Sete Boned of Medica! Bearers

‘9600 Gateway Drive

(C75) 28-2539

09: 16 rs) 008/008

ry



11, Aftormeys? Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

12. allure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay eny fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a)..

Ww
mw
ut
ut
ml
ut
mW
MW
mi
uw
mt
Mt
Ww
Me
Wy
mw
ay
Wt

Toft

04/08/2024

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada See Board of Medien! Examines

{960 Gateway Drive

Rene, Nerds 952

(C15) 82859

09:16 (Fax) P.008/008

eC ea awarwrn

Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as @.
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts,

DATED this gh day of, Apri , 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

ov Melondr Time —
Al YER J. HINMAN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboerd.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

AGREED TO AND UNDERSTOOD.

DATED this_&_day of Agv+\ 2024.

COUT OF Clalie
SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me by
Joseph Patrick Eafrate, PA-C this_&¥*~ day
of Beri 2024.

NOTARY PUBLIC

8of8

"9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevads 895521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

i
ai


IRDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-240-1) was

approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on

7th day of June, 2024.
DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

Lect Mh rnc
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D, F.A C.0.G.
Board President

the

