(075) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521,

‘9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-25391-1

Against: FILED

SAVITA M. CHANDER, M.D.,
SEP 13 2024

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS

— B
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Respondent.

(Board), by and through lan J. Cumings, Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attomey for the IC, and Savita M. Chander, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by her attorney, Adam Schneider, Esq., of the law firm of John H. Cotton & Associates,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1, Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. Her license was originally issued on August 23, 2006 (License No. 12012).

2. On July 24, 2024, in Case No. 24-25391-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1) and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation -
uw

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
sate or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7

'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(078) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

il
13,


Failure to Consult (Count 11). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by
the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter,
and of her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which 1s contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her!
‘own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the
Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.

20f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
19600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(778) 688-2559




B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, @
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that
may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent

acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘3600 Gate

(078) 688-2559

uw


Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a Respondent admits to Count II, one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) ~
Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation ~ Failure to Consult.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the current amount of three thousand one hundred
seventy-four dollars and forty-seven cents ($3,174.47).

©. Respondent shall pay a fine of five hundred dollars ($500) within sixty (60)
days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. The Respondent shall perform five (5) hours of Continued Medical (CME)
related to management of septic patients within six (6) months from the date of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption, and approval of this agreement. These five (5) hours are in addition to the
required CMEs imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada
Education (CME) pursuant to NAC 630.153(1).

€. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

£ Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

Mt

40f7

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examinees

eon



22,


g The remaining count of the Complaint, and any other clams arising from
the Board's corresponding investigative case file, shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents

are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faitl

in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630,364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,

or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

Wt

Sof7

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(05) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

"1


8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed

and all remaining claims ari

ing out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

Il, Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such

jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action 1s
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13, Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

Wt

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nerads Sate Boerd of Medical Bxarloere

19600 Gatowny Deve
‘Reno; Nevada 99521

C15) 658-2559.

Set awe wo

expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in edditional disciplinary action being taken against’ Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a)..
Farther, Respondent's failure to rembit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.
DATED this & Bayt test, 2004. DATED this 57 ae ot AagiT ms
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE | JOHN H. COTTON & ASSOCIATES
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS | S
By: f By ZZ
i CUMINGS ‘ADAM SCHNEIDER, ESQ.
ior Deputy Genetal Counsel 7900 W. Sahara Ave., Suite 200

9600 Gateway Drive - Las Vegas, NV 89117

Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 832-5909

Tel: (775) 688-2559) 2) Einuil: aschneider@jhcottonlaw.com

Email: icumings@medboard.nv.gov Ait for Respondent

‘Attorney for the Investigative Committee orn Ree

DATED this - "day of Pagal, 2024.
he honder

SAVITAM. CHANDER,
Nevada License No. 12012
Respondent”

Tof7

9600 Gateway Drive
(C75) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 895521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

u
15,
at

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-25391-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 13th day of
September, 2024.

DATED this 13th day of September, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

py, _ Let M opel
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M1
Board President

