9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-38761-1

Against: FI LE D

CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL NEVAREZ, M_D., OCT 10 2024

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

ys EXAMINERS
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Christopher Michael Nevarez, M.D., (Respondent) violated
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the
IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a physician holding an active
license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 14036). Respondent was originally
licensed by the Board on July 25, 2011, with a specialty in Emergency Medicine.

2. Patient A? was a fifty-one (51) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

3. On the night of December 15, 2020, Patient A was transported by EMS in spinal
immobilization to Sunrise Hospital Emergency Department following a motor vehicle accident
(MVA), in which her car was front-ended at approximately fifty (50) miles per hour resulting in
confusion and loss of consciousness at the scene of the accident.


' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Carl N. Williams, Jr.,
M.D. FACS, Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF (Ret.).

2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


4. Respondent assumed care of Patient A and documented a physical exam, lab work
was performed, and imaging studies were ordered. Respondent made diagnoses including lower
back pain, fracture of nasal bones, contusion of the left eyelid (although the right eye was
designated instead according to Respondent’s narrative) and periocular area, headache, and
nausea.

5. Although Patient A sustained trauma to her left eye, Respondent failed to recognize
the severity of her left ocular trauma and made no record of any visual acuity testing, hence he did
not attempt to obtain prompt ophthalmological consultation.

6. Respondent did not document tenderness to the right wrist or knee; however,
Patient A was subsequently diagnosed with a non-displaced fracture of the right hamate bone and
a minimally depressed right tibial plateau fracture.

7. Patient A was discharged after approximately three (3) hours in the emergency
department with instruction forms for nasal fractures, post-MVA care and told to follow up with
primary care and an otolaryngologist (ENT). Patient A was discharged without someone to take
her home and instead hired a ride service.

8. On December 21, 2020, Patient A was subsequently seen by an ophthalmologist at
which time she was diagnosed with iridodialysis, vitreous hemorrhage, traumatic glaucoma, iritis,
and traumatic optic neuropathy requiring evaluation and treatment by various ophthalmologists.
Due to the severe trauma sustained to her left eye, Patient A is now permanently blind in that eye.

9. Patient A was also seen by a hand specialist for her hamate fracture and an
orthopedist for her tibial plateau fracture.

10. In his response to the Board regarding this complaint, Respondent incorrectly
referred to Patient A as “he” and stated that there was no trauma to Patient A’s left eye, but to the
right eye, which is contradicted by the trauma flow sheet, the imaging reports, as well as
subsequent medical records.



Q
n
Bs

g
so28
Gzaeg
Zers3
MS ees
O8gze
eige
gee
Gz
me

13,

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

ll. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

12. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

13. | NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

14. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A when he 1) failed to recognize the severity of her left
ocular trauma and when he did not attempt to check her visual acuity, which may not have been
possible due to traumatic injury; however, if it was not possible Respondent should have prompted
arrangement of close follow-up within hours, not days; 2) when he failed to diagnose injuries to
Patient A’s wrist and knee; and 3) when he discharged Patient A who was likely concussed and
had a multitude of distracting injuries inhibiting the ability of normal functioning after only three
(3) hours.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records

16. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

17. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

- YW N


18. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to correctly document his actions when he treated
Patient A, by, among other things, failing to document any visual acuity testing and failing to
document an evaluation of Patient A’s wrist and knee. Respondent also failed to document the
correct side of the eye when describing the trauma sustained by Patient A as a result of the MVA.
As a result, the medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and



9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this lo" day of October, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: OWearouder ». bear —

ALEXANDER J. HINMAN
Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

23,

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
2 SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 10th day of October, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

BRET W. FREY, M.D.
Chairman 6f the Investigative Committee


