ada 89521

9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

Reno,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada Stace Board of Medical Examiners


PNeeERRPRRNRBSRBSBaREEaSR AB

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
wKREEKS
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint | Case M8 1
Against: FILED
CHINYERE LAWRENTIA OKEKE, M.D., DEC 13 2024
J
Respondent. | NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MED: AMINERS
_ ay OA
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Sarah A. Bradley, J.D., MBA, Deputy Executive Director for the Board
and attorney for the IC, and Chinyere Lawrentia Okeke, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician
in Nevada, assisted by her attorney, Liborius Agwara, Esq., of the Law Offices of Libo Agwara,
Ltd., hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in an active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. Her license was originally issued on June 19, 2012 (License No. 14416).

2. On February 13, 2024, in Case No. 24-35350-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I); one (1) violation
of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Count II); one (1)
Mt

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


9600 Gateway Drive
((775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL




violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3), Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the Nevada State
Board of Pharmacy (Count III).

3. On May 9, 2024, in Case No. 24-35350-2, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I); one (1) violation
of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Count II); one (1)
violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3), Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the Nevada State
Board of Pharmacy (Count III).

4. By reason of the foregoing allegations described in paragraphs 2-3, Respondent is
subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

5. Respondent was properly served with a copy of these Complaints, has reviewed
and understands these Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
conceming the nature and significance of these Complaints.

6. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter,
and of her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at her
own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the
Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

7. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of

/i1


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

nr ON

a

of


administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

8. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in ordcr to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.c., the matters
with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,
a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and _Intelligent_Ayreement.
Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rivhts. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Fw N

yw eo Nau

it
13,
15,


may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to scttle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve these Complaints pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to two (2) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice,
and two (2) violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records, as
alleged in the two (2) Complaints;

b. Respondent agrees to complete twenty-two (22) hours of continuing
medical education (CME) related to best practices for prescribing controlled substances and six
(6) hours of CME related to record-keeping within six (6) months from the date of the Board’s
Order approving the Agreement. These twenty-eight (28) hours of CME shall be in addition to the

CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of|

40f8

ike
gb
$3

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

PB ON


u
15,

Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1), and shall be approved by the Board prior to their
completion;

c. Respondent agrees to pay a fine in the amount of two thousand five hundred
dollars and no cents ($2,500.00);

d. Respondent agrees to reimburse the Board for the costs and fees expended
in the investigation and prosecution of the above-referenced cases in the amount of eight thousand
nine hundred fifty-six dollars and eighty-one cents ($8,956.81);

e. Respondent will pay the amounts due pursuant to the above, totaling eleven
thousand four hundred fifty-six dollars and cighty-one cents ($11,456.81) in nine (9) equal
payments of one thousand two hundred seventy-two dollars and ninety-eight cents ($1,272.98),
with the first payment due on or before January 15, 2025, and the remaining eight (8) payments
due the 15th of the month thereafter;

f. Respondent asserts that going forward she will be dedicated to referring her
patients with chronic pain to physicians specializing in pain management for management of their
pain;

g This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank;

h. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand; and

i, The two counts of violation of statutes and regulations of the Nevada State
Board of Pharmacy, in violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3), as alleged in the two (2) Complaints
will be dismissed with prejudice, and any other claims and allegations arising from Board’s
corresponding investigative case files 19-19115 and 21-20128, shall also be dismissed with
prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agrecment, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committces, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to

information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevads 89521

(775) 688-2559

- Bw N




Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of these Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counscl for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the cases shall be
closed and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement


9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examinera
Reno, Nevada 89521


u


and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaints and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved, and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses, or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
MT

TofS

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2589

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BNRRSRRBBRBRBERVESERVABDRESERESS

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this AP ay ot pt. 2024. DATED this 138 of Ley te, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE LAW OFFICES OF LIBO AGWARA, LTD.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL

EXAMINERS

Eek N badly ».Xw—~>
SARAH A. BRADLEY, J.D., MBA LIBORTUS AGWARA, ESQ.
Deputy Executive Director 2785 E. Desert Inn Kd., Ste. 270
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89121
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 385-4800
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: libolaw@yahoo.com
Email: bradleys@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

oe Sep
DATED this zZ day of = , 2024,

CHINYERE LAWRENTIA OKEKE, M.D.,
Nevada License No. 14416
Respondent


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


fo)


ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case Nos. 24-35350-1
and 24-35350-2) was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on
the 13th day of December, 2024.
DATED this 13th day of December, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

by: Jee WA Hopes

NICK M. SPIRTOS,™.D., F.A.C.O.G.
Board President

