Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

rv

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-32518-1
Against: FILED

STEPHEN BRENT HORSLEY, M.D., DEC 26 2024

Respondent. NEVADA S YARD OF
MEDI INERS
By:

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND ORDER

This case was presented for adjudication and decision before the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (Board), during a regularly scheduled Board meeting on December 13, 2024,
at 8:15 a.m. (Pacific Standard Time), located at 325 E. Warm Springs Road, Suite 225, Las Vegas,
NV 89119, video conferenced to 9600 Gateway Drive, Reno, NV 89521. Stephen Brent Horsley,
M.D., (Respondent) was properly served with a notice of the adjudication, including the date,
time, and location. Respondent was present with his attorney, Randal Tindall, Esq. The
adjudicating members of the Board participating in these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law
and Order were: Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.0.G., Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel, Chowdhury H.
Ahsan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, Ms. Pamela J. Beal, Irwin B. Simon, M.D., FACS, Joseph Olivarez,
P.A.-C, and Jason B. Farnsworth, RRT, MBA. Matthew P. Feeley, Esq., Deputy Attorney
General, served as legal counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the formal Complaint (Complaint) and exhibits
admitted at the hearing of this matter, the Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations,' and
the transcript of the hearing, made its decision pursuant to its authority and provisions of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), NRS Chapter 622A, and NRS Chapter 233B, as

applicable.

' The Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations were prepared by Paul Lipparelli, Esq., who was
appointed as Hearing Officer under NRS 630.106 in this matter and presided over the hearing.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER in this matter, as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada issued by the Board
on April 18, 2007.

Il.

On January 31, 2024, the Investigative Committee filed a formal Complaint in
Case No. 24-32518-1, alleging two (2) violations of the Medical Practice Act that constitutes
grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee, as follows: one (1) count of
NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice and one (1) count of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain
Appropriate Medical Records. The Complaint was served upon Respondent’s counsel on
February 1, 2024. Respondent filed an Answer to the allegations set forth in the Complaint on
February 20, 2024.

Til.

An Order was filed on March 12, 2024, scheduling an Early Case Conference for the
pending matter for March 18, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., and was served upon Respondent’s counsel by
email.

On March 18, at 10:00 a.m., the Hearing Officer., conducted a telephonic Early Case
Conference by Zoom in this matter. William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel, (Mr. Shogren)
was present on behalf of the Investigative Committee (IC) and Dylan E. Houston, Esq. appeared
on behalf of Respondent. At the scheduled Early Case Conference, the Hearing Officer set the
date for the Prehearing Conference, the deadline for the parties to exchange lists of witnesses and
documents, and the date for the Hearing.

On March 27, 2024, in compliance with NAC 630.465, a Scheduling Order setting the
Prehearing Conference and Hearing was filed. Pursuant to that Order, the Prehearing Conference

was set for June 17, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. and the formal Hearing was set for July 22, 2024, at

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



9:00 a.m. The Scheduling Order was sent to Respondent’s counsel by email and certified mail on
March 28, 2024.

The IC’s Prehearing Conference Statement, along with exhibits intended to be presented at
the Hearing, was sent to Respondent’s counsel via Fed Ex 2-Day Mail and was served on
June 14, 2024.

The Prehearing Conference was held by Zoom as noticed and ordered, at which time, legal
counsel for the IC, Mr. Shogren, appeared and Mr. Tindall appeared on behalf of Respondent.

A request for a continuance by Respondent’s counsel was granted and an Order
Rescheduling Date of Formal Hearing was filed July 19, 2024, moving the Hearing to September
11, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. The Order was sent to Respondent’s counsel via email and certified mail on
July 19, 2024.

IV.

On September 11, 2024, as duly noticed and ordered, a contested case hearing was held
before the Hearing Officer to receive evidence and to hear arguments of both parties. Legal
counsel for the IC, Mr. Shogren, appeared and Mr. Tindall and Respondent also appeared.

The Hearing Officer received the complete record of proceedings, including the transcript
of the testimony received and the exhibits admitted at the formal hearing. The Hearing Officer
issued his Findings and Recommendations, which were filed November 12, 2024. This matter
was scheduled for final adjudication on December 13, 2024, at a regularly scheduled Board
meeting. A copy of the Hearing Officers Findings and Recommendations was served upon
Respondent’s counsel via email and certified mail.

On November 12, 2024, a notice of the adjudication was sent to Respondent’s counsel via
email and certified mail.

A copy of the adjudication materials was sent via Fed Ex 2-Day mail to Respondent’s
counsel on December 5, 2024, and a copy of the Investigative Committee’s Memorandum of
Costs and Disbursements and Attorney’s Fees was sent to Respondent’s counsel by email on
December 11, 2024.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

ih

Vv.

Pursuant to NRS 622A.300(5)(a), the Findings and Recommendations of the Hearing
Officer are hereby approved by the Board and are hereby specifically incorporated and made part
of this Order by reference. A copy of the Findings and Recommendations filed
November 12, 2024, in this matter are attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

VI.

The Board hereby finds that Counts I and II, as set forth in the Complaint, and as

recapitulated in Paragraph II above, have been established by a preponderance of the evidence.
Vil.

If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law, it
may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent’s medical license and the Complaint, and an

adjudication of this matter by the Board members as set forth herein is proper.
Il.

Respondent was timely and properly served with the Complaint, and all notices and orders
in advance of the hearing and adjudication thereon, in accordance with NAC Chapter 630,
and NRS Chapters 630, 241, 622A and 233B, and all legal requirements of due process.

Ill.

With respect to the allegations of the Complaint, the Board concludes that Respondent has
violated the Medical Practice Act, as alleged in the Complaint, as follows: one (1) count of
NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice and one (1) count of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain
Appropriate Medical Records. Accordingly, Respondent is subject to discipline pursuant to
NRS 630.352.

IV.
The Board finds that, pursuant to NRS 622.400, recovery from Respondent of reasonable

attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigation and disciplinary

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

iS)

an -F w&


proceedings against Respondent is appropriate. The Board has reviewed the Investigative
Committee’s Memorandum of Costs and Disbursements and Attorneys’ Fees; and the Board finds
them to be the actual fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigative,
administrative and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, and finds them to be reasonable
and necessary based on: (1) the abilities, training, education, experience, professional standing
and skill demonstrated by Board staff and attorneys; (2) the character of the work done, its
difficulty, its intricacy, its importance, the time and skill required, the responsibility imposed and
the prominence and character of the parties where, as in this case, they affected the importance of
the litigation; (3) the work actually performed by the Board’s attorneys and staff, and the skill,
time and attention given to that work; and (4) the product of the work and benefits to the Board
and the people of Nevada that were derived therefrom.
Vv.

If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of Fact, it
may be so construed.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent is hereby ordered to reimburse the Board the reasonable and necessary
costs and expenses actually incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of
fourteen thousand one hundred thirty-two dollars and ninety-eight cents ($14,132.98), which amount
Respondent shall pay within sixty (60) days of service of this Order;

2. Respondent shall perform two (2) hours of Continuing Medical Education (CME),
related to the subject of best practices in record keeping, within six (6) months of service of this
Order. These two (2) hours of CME shall be in addition to the CME requirement regularly
imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to
NAC 630.125(1);


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


ret

3. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(e), a written public reprimand shall be issued to
Respondent; and

4. Respondent’s discipline shall be reported to the appropriate entities, including the
National Practitioner Databank (NPDB), as required by law.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

DATED this 26th day of December, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: ee M Hoprts~

NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D., F.A.C.0.G.
President of the Board

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


fo)


CERTIFICATION

I certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of STEPHEN BRENT HORSLEY, M.D., Case No. 24-32518-1.

I further certify that Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G., is the President of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such;
and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of the said Nick M. Spirtos, M.D.,
F.A.C.0.G.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this 26th day of December, 2024.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
Margie Ques teuel

MAGGIE ARIAS-PETREL
Secretary-Treasurer and Public Member of the Board

By:

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
wk YW nN



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KREKS

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint | Case No. 24-32518-1

Against: FI L E D
STEPHEN BRENT HORSLEY, M.D., NOV 12 2024
NEVADA STATE BOARD oO)
Respondent. MED! ee
P oy, MEDICS EXAMINERS”

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS/SYNOPSIS OF RECORD
L INTRODUCTION

A hearing was held in front of the under-signed hearing officer on September 11, 2024,
beginning at 9:00 a.m. at the Reno office of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the
“Board”). William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel, appeared on behalf of the Investigative
Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the “IC”). Mr. Shogren and the
hearing officer were present in the hearing room. Randall Tindall, Esq. appeared by Zoom from Las
Vegas on behalf of Respondent Stephen Brent Horsley, M.D. Court Reporter Gabrielle Johnson was
present by Zoom and transcribed the proceedings. Legal Assistant Mercedes Fuentes was also present
in the hearing room and operated the Zoom equipment.

The following witnesses appeared by Zoom and were sworn in by the court reporter before
testifying: Alexis Kent, Dr. Michael Murray and Dr. Stephen Horsley. The hearing officer confirmed
that all witnesses and participants could hear each other.

References to the hearing transcript are made below and designated by “TR” followed by the
page number of the transcript. References are also made to the Bates-stamped exhibits submitted by
the parties. NSBME signifies exhibits offered by the Board. RESP signifies exhibits offered by the
Respondent. The parties to these cases cannot be sure what documents each is planning to present
until the exchange of medical records prior to the prehearing conference. Understandably, the parties

submit some of the same documents as exhibits.


The following exhibits were admitted into evidence:
e@ Exhibit |—Formal Complaint, NSBME 001-005 (TR19) H

e Exhibit 2—Proof of Service, NSBME 006 (TR20)

e Exhibit 3—Allegation Letter, NSBME 007-008 (TR20)

e Exhibit 4—Order to Product Records, NSBME 009-012 (TR20)

e Exhibit S—Respondent’s Response to Allegation Letter, NSBME 013-017 (TR20)
e Exhibit 6—Medical Records from Western Surgical, NSBME 018-067 (TR20)

¢ Exhibit 7—Medical Records from Dr. Horsley, NSBME 068-114 (TR20)

e Exhibit 8—Curriculum Vitae of Michael Murray, M.D., NSBME 115-117 (TR29)

© Exhibit 9—Quick Safety: Advancing Safety with Closed-Loop Communication of
Test Results (December 2019), NSBME 118-119 (TR32)

¢ Exhibit 10—American Medical Association Code of Medical Ethics, 2.1..5 Reporting
Clinical Test Results (1847, revised 2016), NSBME 120 (TR32)

e Excerpts of Ensign Family Medicine Records, RESP 000186-000189, (TR88)

The rule of exclusion for witnesses was invoked by both parties. The hearing concluded at
12:37 p.m,

I. ALLEGATIONS

A formal complaint was filed against Respondent on January 31, 2024. Count | of the
Complaint alleges malpractice of a physician under NRS 630.301(4) for the failure of a physician in
treating a patient to use reasonable care skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar}
circumstances. Count 2 alleges the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical
records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient under NRS 630.3062(1)(a). The
Answer was filed February 20, 2024 and denies many of the allegations.

Pursuant to the Complaint, the Respondent examined Patient A on September 18, 2020, for!
the evaluation of an enlarged right groin node (and other conditions unrelated to this matter). A few
weeks later, on October 26, 2020, Respondent performed the excision of the node for a biopsy and
the excised tissue was sent to a pathology services firm on the orders of Respondent. On or about

October 30, 2020, Respondent received a preliminary pathology report which stated in part


“worrisome for B-cell lymphoma with follicular pattern however, bcl-2 strain is not confirmatory.”
The report also noted that the tissue would be sent for outside consultation. These allegations arc
admitted by the Respondent in the answer.

The dispute in this case centers on the actions the Respondent took, or did not take, following
the successful surgical procedure.

Ill. WITNESSES AND TESTIMONY

A. Alexis Kent.

State Board of Medica! Examiners investigator Alexis Kent was called by the IC. Ms. Kent
was assigned as the investigator for the Respondent's case. Ms. Kent testified that prior to her
involvement with the Respondent’s case another investigator performed work on the case and that
she took over the investigator duties on November 28, 2022. TRI7. Ms. Kent explained she had
experience in approximately 200 other investigations and that her work on the Respondent's case is
like other cases she has investigated. TR16-17. Ms. Kent explained she was familiar with Exhibits |
and 2 of the IC’s exhibits and that they are true and correct copies. Exhibits 1 and 2 were admitted
into evidence without objection. TR19. To save time during the hearing, Respondent’s counsel
courteously noted there were also no objections to the admission into evidence of exhibits 3 through
7. TR20. They were admitted.

On cross examination Ms. Kent testified that Ryan Swank was the prior investigator (TR21)
and that she did not have input into the decision to file the formal complaint in this case. TR24.
When Ms. Kent's testimony concluded she was removed from the Zoom call.

B. Michael Murray, M.D.

L. Direct Examination.
Dr. Michael Murray, a licensed Nevada physician, testified next for the IC. He has been

licensed in Nevada for 27 years and explained his medical education. TR26. Dr. Murray is certified
by the American Board of Surgery. TR 27. Exhibit 8 is a true and correct copy of his CV and Exhibit
8 was admitted over the objection of Respondent’s counsel on the basis of relevance. TR26-29. Dr.
Murray has served as a peer reviewer for the Board for 20 to 30 cases over the last 10 years. TR29.

Dr. Murray explained his experience as a practicing physician in general surgery. TR32.

- ew na


Al

Dr. Murray testified that he was familiar with the IC's Exhibits 9 and 10 and that they were
true and correct copies of what he provided to the ICC as part of his engagement with the Board.
TR29-30. He testified that exhibit 9 is an article from the AMA about managing closed loop
communications of test results and that Exhibit 10 is the AMA code of ethics on clinical test results
and together elucidate the standard of management of information and communication. Dr. Murray
testified that exhibits 9 and 10 are documents supporting the standard of care and management of
information by physicians. TR29-30. Exhibits 9 and 10 were admitted into evidence over the
objection of Respondent’s council based on authenticity and foundation, TR31-32.

Dr. Murray testified that his on-going surgical practice includes surgeries like lymph node |
biopsies, breast biopsies and the collection of specimens for diagnosis. TR 33. Dr. Murray's
experience includes close to 1000 diagnostic lymph node biopsies and the review of thousands of
pathology reports. TR 33-34. Dr. Murray testified that he has reviewed the Complaint in the instant
case along with the Respondent's response and the medical records provided to him for his review.
TR34,

Dr. Murray testified in his professional opinion Respondent departed from the proper
standards of care. TR35. Dr. Murray's opinion is the surgical procedure was performed for the
purpose of diagnostics and to obtain the needed pathology report. TR35. Dr. Murray concludes there
was not an adequate discussion of the patient’s case and the patient was discharged from the practice
without that discussion taking place. TR35.

The witness was examined at length about exhibits contained in the IC’s submitted exhibits.
Exhibit 7 (NSBME 71) reflects patient's initial consult by Respondent who recommended a biopsy of
Patient A's enlarged right groin lymph node. TR36. The Respondent’s operative note following the
surgery and says that there were no difficulties or issues with the surgery which took place on
October 26, 2020. TR37 (NSBME 74). The Aurora Diagnostics pathology report that followed the
surgery was signed by pathologist, Dr. June Sigman, on October 30, 2020, was addressed to Dr.
Stephen Horsley, Respondent. NSMBE 75--76, Dr. Murray notes the pathology report contains only
a preliminary diagnosis including atypical lymphoid proliferation. TR38. Dr. Murray noted that there!

is something worrisome on the pathology and that more studies on more slides would be nceded for


the final pathology. TR38. Additional ancillary studies are pending and will be reported on an
addendum to the final report. TR38. In Dr. Murray's experience it is increasingly common for
pathology reports to be amended based on the availability of additional testing. TR39.

The additional pathology noted in the first pathology report was performed. Addendum | of|
the pathology report dated November 13, 2020, addressed to Dr. Stephen Horsley of Durango
Outpatient Surgery Center, notes positive results for B-cell gene rearrangement and confirms a
diagnosis of lymphoma. TR39. NSBME 77. The addendum states the need for even more additional
testing for further characterization. TR40. Dr. Murray explained that it is becoming increasingly
common to delineate exactly what type of tumor is present TR 40.

Dr. Murray was examined about NSBME 81, the second addendum of the initial pathology
report from Aurora Diagnostics. This third document was signed by David R. Coon M.D. and was
also addressed to Dr. Horsley. That report provides a final diagnosis of the right groin lymph node as
follicular lymphoma Grade 1 or 2. TR42. Dr. Murray testified that from his review of the}
Respondent’s Response to Investigative Letter, Patient A was informed of the diagnosis of low-grade
lymphoma in June of 2021. TR43. NSBME 016.

From Dr, Murray's review of the records provided to him in Respondent’s case, he cannot
find records indicating Dr. Horsley informed Patient A of the first addendum to the pathology report
TR44. Dr. Murray believes Dr. Horsley should have told the patient there were some concerns for
lymphoma and that Dr. Horsley should have brought the patient back after the final diagnosis and
discussed the findings with the patient. TR44. There is no benefit to the biopsy procedure other than
to get the diagnosis TR44. The main reason to accept the risks of a biopsy is that the patient wants to
know the reason for an enlarged lymph node, and it is important to communicate this information to
the patient. TR46. Dr. Murray would have communicated the concems about the path pathology to
the patient during another office visit to close the communication loop. TR46.

Dr. Murray's review of the patient records does not indicate there was a follow-up for the
patient and no transfer of the patient to an oncologist who would deal with the pathology findings.

TR47. Dr. Murray believes that the standard of care would have been to have a discussion with

o> ew nN aunarewrn =

BNRRRRBBRRSESSEWABTERESERSS

Patient A about the pathology findings. TR47. The patient was not informed of the seriousness of her
diagnosis after a diagnostic procedure. TR48.

Dr. Murray testified that from the carly days of a physician’s internship the long-standing
traditions are that the physician who ordered a test is responsible for the actions taken afterward
TR49. Physicians are responsible for the continued monitoring of records that are received about a
patient and addressing the results TR49. Dr. Murray's practice is to review pathology and radiology
and other things and to sign them off prior to them being placed in the patient's medical record.
TRSO-S1.

2. Cross Examination.

Dr. Murray is aware that Dr. White was Patient A’s family physician, but he does not recall
reviewing Dr. White's records. TR52. Dr. Murray testified that about 85% of the biopsies he has
performed came from a referral by another doctor. TR53.

Dr. Murray explained the process by which he is engaged as a peer reviewer for Board cases.
TR 54. He is contacted by an investigator from the Board after the Board's investigation has begun.
TRS6. He gets materials from the investigator, reviews the materials and sends them back to the
board along with a report. TR58-60.

Counsel for Dr. Horsley asked that Dr. Murray's report to the Board be displayed so that
questions could be asked about the report. TR6]. The hearing officer sustained an objection to that
request because the investigative file is confidential except for those items which are used in the
formal hearing. TR62. After another request for Dr. Murray’s report by Respondent, the hearing
officer ruled that Dr. Murray's live testimony which may have included matters addressed in his
report did not tum the report into an admitted exhibit and destroy the confidentiality of the
investigative file. TR62-63.

Dr. Murray explained the process he uses to research the standard of care when presented
with a case from the Board. TR65. He may have spent an hour or two doing Internet research on the
case. TR65. Dr. Murray admitted he did not have written authority for the long-standing traditions he

testified to carlier applied to the facts of Dr. Horsley’s case. TR66. Dr. Murray explained that he


nD iS a
BRSRREBBRRESFEVSEVTRABETSESSS

probably could have found other information from organizations such as the AMA, JCAHO the
Institute of Medicine, CMS and Medicare. TR64-67.

Dr. Murray admitted he could not say whether any doctor had discussed the preliminary lab
results with Patient A and that there is no documentation for that. TR69. He also admitted he has no
knowledge about the processes Dr. Horsley uses in his office and no knowledge about whether there
has ever been a similar incident to that of Patient A. TR71. Dr. Horsley is not aware of any CME
training or board of medical examiners mandates about a standard of care for communication. TR77.

Dr. Murray admitted that “quick safety” document produced by the Joint Commission and
which he consulted (NSBME 118-119) contained a statement that the material is meant as
information piece only and is not a standard. TR68. NSBME 018-019. Dr. Murray admitted that if
Patient A’s primary care doctor discussed the pathology reports with Patient A, that would have been
good for the patient. TR69.

3. Re-direct Examination.

On re-direct examination, Dr. Murray testified he relied on his own experience as a surgeon
in reaching his opinion that Dr. Horsley had committed malpractice. TR72. Dr. Murray explained
that the role of a primary care physician does not change his opinion that Dr. Horsley had an
obligation to explain all the pathology to the patient. TR72.

Cc Stephen Horsley, M.D.

1, Direct Examination.

Dr. Horsley briefly explained his education including his medical education intemship and
residency. TR76. Dr. Horsley has had one employer and one partner for the past 17 years and is a
Board Certified general surgeon. TR76. The process of obtaining board certification includes taking
qualifying exams (oral and written) and carries a rigorous process of continuing medical education to
maintain the certification. TR76-77. In all of his schooling, training, board certifications and
continuing medical education, Dr. Horsley does not recall being instructed on a standard of care for
communicating test results to patients. TR77. Dr. Horsley has performed approximately 100 biopsics

per year for 17 years and has also had experience with removing other tissue during surgery. TR78.


BNRBRRPEBBRESESGeSEWDARZREERSS

Dr. Horsley explained the challenges his medical practice experienced during the COVID
pandemic in 2020. He lost 50% of his office staff, surgeries were being cancelled so operating rooms ,
could be used for sick patients and the governor was asking people to stay home. Dr. White, a friend
of Dr. Horsley, was having similar experiences with his office. The entire medical socicty was not
functioning normally. TR79. Specifically, during the pandemic some medical procedures were being
postponed and because Patient A was scheduled for a colonoscopy and the biopsy of the swollen
lymph node, it was difficult to gain approval for Patient A’s combination procedure. TR79.

Dr. Horsley testified about a telephone note created by the office of Dr. Sanford White which
says that Dr. White discussed with the patient the pathology results for the inguinal lymph node and
the need for further evaJuation and a referral to oncology. TR81. He was referring to RESP 204. It
was offered as evidence, but not admitted because Dr. Horsley did not author the record and could
not be sure whether Dr. White or his assistant had spoken to the patient. TR85. The document did
however match Dr. Horsley’s knowledge of what happened in Patient A's case. TR86.

Dr. Horsley’s testimony establishes that respondents exhibits 186, 187 and 188 (RESP 186-
188) were the preliminary pathology findings of Dr. June Sigman (Auroa Diagnostics) and were
reported on October 30", 2020. They were sent from Mountain West Surgical (Dr. Horsley) to Dr.
White's office November 16, 2020. TR87-88. These exhibits were admitted into evidence without
objection.

Dr. Horsley conducted a post-op exam on Patient A which confirmed the right groin incision
did not appear to be infected. He also notified Patient A that the colonoscopy showed nothing of
concern. TR88-89. During that visit Dr. Horsley informed Patient A that there were “cells of
concern” based on the pathology, but more expert analysis would be necessary. He informed Paticnt
A that follow-up with him (Dr. Horsley) would be as-needed because Dr. White was also going to
have a copy of the report. TR89.

Dr. Horsley felt it would be irresponsible to tell Patient A, who he knew was being treated for
anxiety and depression, the words “possibly cancer” which could be devastating to her. TR89. He

did, however, tell her that there are unusual cells that are not normal, and that Dr. Sigman (the


co mn




pathologist) needs more studies to tell exactly what we are dealing with. He also told the patient that
it was not clear how long that would take. TR89.

Dr. Horsley has a good opinion of the pathologist and that if she could not determine what the
test results show, the need for further analysis was appropriate. TR90. The lack of clarity in the test
results could mean that Patient A’s case was “borderline” or a “very low grade lymphoma” that may
represent something conceming. TR90.

Aside from Patient A's case, Dr, Horsley said that he is unaware of any problems in
communication of pathology findings to a patient by he or his partner in 17 years of general surgery
practice. TR91. Dr. Horsley testified his office procedures for electronic medical records include
reviewing the records, verifying records have been reviewed, and directing copies be sent to primary
care providers. TR92.

Despite what he believed were adequate procedures within his office for handling pathology
reports, Dr. Horsley was distressed to discover that several months had passed between the time Dr.
White got the pathology report and the time Patient A was referred to other doctors for follow up
care. TR92. After Patient A's case Dr. Horsley began the practice of printing pathology reports and
handing them to patients and asking patients if they would like help making an appointment with an
oncologist when oncology may be necessary instead of relying on primary care doctors to make those
referrals TR92-93. Dr. Horsley also takes the additional step of sending pathology reports by
registered mail with a return confirmation for patients that do not follow-up. TR93.

The Patient A case was the first instance Dr. Horsley knew there was any kind of problem
involving pathology records. TR93. As soon as Dr. Horsley realized there was a communication
problem between the surgical group, the primary care doctor, and the patient, he and his partner
double and triple checks to make sure nothing similar would happen again. TR94.

Dr. Horsley admits that as to Count 2 involving medical records his record keeping could
have better reflected the efforts he did make regarding communication and documenting

communication. TR94-95.


BSRRRPEBRBEBS SSE VTA BRERSS

2. Cross Examination.

Dr. Horsley did not recall personally sending the first pathology report to Dr. White, but he
did advise his staff to be sure it was sent to Dr. White. TR96. During post-op exam which took place
on November 17, 2020, Dr. Horsley did not convey to Patient A the contents of addendum #1 to the
pathology report signed by Dr. Coon and dated November 13, 2020, TR96. That report may have
been in his office but had not been processed and put into the patient’s chart because it sometimes
takes several days to be processed in the office. TR97.

The November 20, 2020 amended pathology report (second addendum) is dated November
20, 2020 and Dr. Horsley testified he likewise did not personally send the report to Dr. White but
directed his staff to do so. TR98. Dr. Horsely also testificd about electronic medical records systems
within his office which confirm that he directed his staff to deliver the first addendum and the second
addendum of the pathology reports to Dr. White. The “screen grab” of this record is NSBME 105.
TROIS.

The electronic medical records system also shows an entry for pathology “ADDENDUM”
and contains the date 1 1/24/2020, but Dr. Horsley does not know what is meant by the term “scan
date”. The electronic record contains this language “‘please be sure Dr. White has this report.” The
“screen grab” is NSBME 106. TR99,

Dr. Horsley testified that the contents of the pathology reports concerning Patient A were
concerning and that it is important for the patient to know the report results so the patient can
potentially get care. TR100. Dr. Horsley testified that ideally, Patient A would have followed up
with Dr. White as the referring doctor who would be able to communicate with paticnt in a
compassionate way having known and treated her for a multitude of medical problems. TR100.

Dr. Horsley believes that Dr. White's office had the preliminary pathology report and did not
communicate with the patient, nor did the patient choose to follow up with Dr. White or Dr. Horsley.
TRIO}. There was no communication between Patient A and Dr. Horsley or Dr. White until Junc [of|
2021]. TR101. Dr. Horsley admits that he did not reach out to Patient A after his November 17, 2020

post op exam. TRIO1.


wp wv

vP wxrna



D. Directed Verdict.

At the conclusion of the presentation by the IC the Respondent moved for a directed verdict
on the basis that there is no testimony on the record, stated to a degree of medical probability, to
support a finding of malpractice under Count 1 by a preponderance of the evidence. TR74. The
hearing officer denied the motion but noted that the weight of Dr. Murray's testimony would reflect
the bases for his opinion. TR74-75.

IV. FINDINGS

All the witnesses appeared genuine and gave credible testimony. The hearing officer finds
the education, training and work experience of Ms. Kent, Dr. Murray and Dr. Horsley enabled them
to provide helpful testimony about the facts and exhibits. Dr. Murray and Dr. Horsley, as highly
educated and experienced professionals, are also considered able to offer opinions on facts and data
that was available to them,

The record and the evidence establish there is no dispute about the dates of these events and

occurrences:

° 10/26/2020—surgical procedure on Patient A for removal of enlarged lymph node
from right groin by Dr. Horsley,

e 10/30/2020—date of signing of first Aurora Diagnostics pathology report with
preliminary results “worrisome for B-cell lymphoma” but noting ancillary studies arc
pending and an addendum will follow,

° 11/13/2020—date of Addendum #1 of Aurora Diagnostics pathology report with
findings that the results are “confirm the diagnosis of lymphoma” and that outside
consultation is necessary to further characterization and findings,

. 11/16/2020—date preliminary pathology report (signed 10/30/2020) sent to Dr.
White’s office by Dr. Horsley’s office (fax cover sheet),

e 11/17/2020—post-op exam of Patient A by Dr. Horsley,

° 11/20/2020—date of Addendum #2 of Aurora Diagnostics pathology report with final
diagnosis of follicular lymphoma grade 1-2,

. 6/2021—Patient A is informed of diagnosis of low-grade lymphoma as part of a
referral to oncology.

up wd

Low rna

A. Malpractice.

Malpractice is the failure to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
the circumstances in the treatment of patient.

Respondent, Dr. Horsley, performed a successful biopsy procedure on Patient A and sent the
excised tissue to pathology. An initial pathology report and two addenda to the pathology report
were produced by Aurora Diagnostics and several pathologists. The initial pathology report noted
some concerning findings but did not contain a conclusive diagnosis. The first addendum and the
second addendum confirmed lymphoma in Patient A. Dr. Horsley never communicated the results of
the first and second addenda directly to Patient A but did direct the results of the pathology addenda
be sent to Patient A’s primary care physician, He assumed that Patient A would be told about the
lymphoma by the primary care physician.

Dr. Horsley examined Patient A after the lymph node surgery. He determined there was no
infection at the incision site, told Patient A that the results of the colonoscopy were of no concern,
and explained that only preliminary pathology was available concerning the excised lymph node. He
told Patient A, there were “cells of concern,” but that more testing was being donc. Dr. Horsley
directed his staff to send the initial and at least the first amended pathology reports to Dr. White, |
Patient A’s primary care physician. No admissible cxhibits confirm Dr. Horsley or Dr. White
(Patient A’s primary care doctor) communicated to Patient A about the troubling results of those tests
until June of 2021—approximately 7 months after the surgery.'

Dr. Murray, the IC’s witness, says it is standard practice—and definitely his personal
practice—to communicate patients about pathology results. All three pathology reports from Aurora|
Diagnostics were addressed to Respondent. Dr. Horsley and Durango Outpatient Surgery Center are
listed on those reports as “client.” Dr. Murray’s considerable experience with thousands of biopsies
and pathology reports provides a basis for him to describe an appropriate standard of practice for
patient communication. As established by Dr. Murray, the reason for performing a biopsy on a
swollen lymph gland is to obtain pathology. That points to the importance of making sure the

pathology results are communicated to the patient.

' Dr. Horsley admitted during cross examination there was no communication between Patient A and Dr. Horsley or
Patient A and Dr. White until June [of 2021].


uk Ww HN

om IY


Dr. Murray relies on Exhibit 9, the article from the Joint Commission, which discusses the
importance of multiple parties in the health care system working together to hand off tests and
communicate with the patient—to close the loop of communications. However, as established on
cross-examination, the article itself is not meant to be a medical standard. It is therefore not given
much weight as evidence.

Dr. Murray also provided the Board an excerpt of the AMA Code of Medical Ethics about
reporting clinical test results. It provides, in part, “Patients should be able to be confident that they
will receive the results of clinical tests in a timely fashion. Physicians have a corresponding
obligation to be considerate of patient concerns and anxieties and ensure that patients receive test ;
results within a reasonable time frame.” NSBME 120. The code acknowledges that when and how
clinical results are conveyed to patients can vary considerably, but emphasizes physicians should
have policies and procedures in place that ensure patients are properly informed about test results.

Dr. Murray could not find any medical records involving Patient A establishing that Dr.
Horsley handed off Patient A’s case to Dr. White or any other physician such as an oncologist.
Whether due to his understanding of long-standing practices of physicians to communicate test
results to patients, or the AMA Code of Ethics, Dr. Murray’s opinion is that Dr. Horsley departed
from the standard of practice in failing to communicate to Patient A the ultimate diagnosis of grade |
or 2 lymphoma. Dr. Murray’s opinion must be considered in light of other evidence about the
standard of care. The only source for that is the testimony of Dr. Horsley. There were no other
witnesses.

Dr. Horsley has considerable experience as a surgeon. He has performed over 100 biopsies
per year for over 17 years. With his experience and training and the extra training he gets as a Board
Certified surgeon, Dr. Horsley cannot recall ever once being instructed about the standard of care in
reporting test results to patients. There is no evidence, outside the case involving Patient A, that Dr.
Horsley has ever had a problem with patients being informed of test results. In this case, Dr. Horsley
is relying on his experience and training. And Dr. Murray is relying on his experience and at least on
authority that instructs physicians to have policies and procedures in place to ensurc that patients arc

properly informed about test results.


Dr. Horsley does have a system to forward test results he receives to other doctors. An
electronic button in his electronic medical records system allows him to indicate that he has reviewed
a medical record like a pathology report, but does not clearly include the date the records were
reviewed. The “screen grab” evidence described during Dr. Horsley’s testimony bears this out. The
electronic records system further allows Dr. Horsley to direct that pathology reports he reviews be
forwarded directed to other physicians like a primary care doctor. He used this system in Patient A’s
case to direct copies of the Aurora Diagnostics reports (at least two of them anyway) be sent to Dr.
White. Dr. Horsley’s system ensured the reports were sent to another doctor, but the standard of care
is that they be communicated to the patient. That is the shortfall. There is no proof that Dr. Horsley
communicated to Patient A about the results of the first and second addenda of the pathology report |
confirming the lymphoma diagnosis.”

Dr. Horsley may have satisfied his duty of patient communication by clearly and verifiably
transferring responsibility for communication with Patient A to Dr. Whitc. There is no evidence that
happened. Patient A did not learn of the diagnosis of low-grade lymphoma from the excised lymph
node until June of 2021 proving the lack of timely patient communication. Dr. Horsley admits this
unfortunate fact.

When Dr. Horsley sent the excised tissuc to pathology, he could have directed the results to
be sent to Dr. White or some other physician. That would be consistent with a belief that the primary
care doctor was the appropriate physician to follow-up with the patient. That did not happen, and the
pathology reports were sent exclusively to Dr. Horsley. Dr. Horsley knew that Dr. White had a long-
standing professional relationship with Patient A and felt the potentially distressing communication |
about the diagnosis of lymphoma was better coming from Dr. White. This shows commendable
concer for Patient A’s welfare. But, it should have been the cause for a communication between Dr.

Horsley and Dr. White to confirm that Dr. White should be the one to most compassionately deliver

2 After learning of the failure in communications with Patient A, Respondent immediately took action to ensure proper
communication with patients about test results occurred going forward. In civil litigation, evidence of remedial measures.
is usually not admissible to show a breach of duty. This encourages correction of unsafe or unsatisfactory conditions
immediately rather than after litigation. Dr. Horsley took the risk that testifying about the corrective actions he installed to
prevent future communication failures could be seen as proof that his actions in the Patient A case were deficient. That
shows a laudable concem for better future outcomes. The remedial measures Dr. Horsley took are not necessary to
establish that Dr. Horsley failed to communicate tests results to Patient A.


en <i

BSRRRBREREEBESGe WA BDREER ASN

the results of the pathology reports confirming the diagnosis. There is no evidence of that
communication.?

The preponderance of the evidence establishes that Dr. Horsley committed malpractice by his
failure to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under the circumstances in the
treatment of Patient A.

B. Failure to Maintain Records.

Dr. Horsley admits that his medical records could have been better and did not adequately
reflect the efforts he believes he made regarding Patient A. He offered no evidence to refute the
allegations in Count 2,

Vv. RECOMMENDATION

A hearing officer appointed by the Board is responsible for submitting written findings and
recommendations to the Board. NRS 622A.380(1)(I).

A claim of malpractice by a practitioner can be established by a preponderance of evidence.
NRS 630.301(4). It is the recommendation of the undersigned hearing officer that a preponderance
of the evidence establishes that, as alleged in the Complaint and with regard to Patient A, the Board
should find: (1) Respondent, Dr. Stephen Horsley, committed malpractice under NRS 630.301(4) for
the failure of a physician in treating a patient to use reasonable care skill or knowledge ordinarily
used under similar circumstances; and (2) Respondent, Dr. Stephen Horsley, failed under NRS
3062(1)(a) to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the
diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient.

DATED this 11"* day of November, 2024.

L Hearing Officer

Paul A. Lipparelli
Tel: 775-771-6927
Email: paul.lipparelli@gmail.com

3 Dr. Horsley lost half the employees of his medical office during the COVID pandemic which undoubtedly affected the
flow of work and the handling of records. Dr. Horsley believes that Dr. White experienced similar employee loss.
Perhaps if both medical offices were at full strength, the records processing and the communications would have been
better. It is ultimately the duty of the licensed professional to carry out the duty of patient communication.


true

RECOMMENDATIONS/SYNOPSIS OF RECORD to the following parties:

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I certify that on this day, I served by personally delivering or mailing, postage pre-paid, a

and correct file-stamped copy of the foregoing FINDINGS

William P. Shogren

Deputy General Counsel

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Stephen Brent Horsley, M.D.
c/o Randall Tindall, Beg,
Resnick & Louis, P.C.

8945 W. Russell Rd., Ste. 330
Las Vegas, NV 89148

Certified Mail No.: 9171 9690 0935 0255 7004 55

its
DATED this \ ~ day of (November, 2024,

——K>

Signature
Miewedey xed
Printed Name \
L Daesvssonrt
Title hg =

AND

