OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(C75) 688-2559

eon

ES


n


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-34676-1

Against: o
FILED
JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.,
Respondent. SEP 13 2024
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

. aa MINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMEI oa

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and John Timothy Katzen, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on June 23, 2014 (License No 15386).

2. On June 28, 2024, in Case No. 24-34676-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(3), Disciplinary Action by Another Licensing
Board (Count I). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
wt

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litgation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 8521
(75) 688-2559

aoe

u
2a

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the night to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if|
the decision 1s adverse to him.

5 Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, 1s not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Boerd for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the night to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that 1f the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

ae
Wt

20f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,

(C75) 689-2559

15,

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions:
L Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set

forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Re ntatic unsel/Knowing, Willing and_Int reement.
Respondent acknowledges he 1s not represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein without counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering ito this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
forgo a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all nights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering.
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada #9521,
(075) 688-2589

son

ema .au

rT

Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have ment
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
watves the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement

5. Consent to Entry of Order, In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon.

a Respondent admits to Count I, violation of NRS 630.301(3), Disciplinary
Action by Another Licensing Board.

b, Respondent shall immediately cease the practice of medicine and
immediately, voluntarily, surrender his license to practice medicine within the State of Nevada
pursuant to NAC 630.240,

c. Respondent shall not reinstate or reapply for licensure within the State of
‘Nevada prior to September 13, 2027.

4. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of six hundred sixty-seven dollars
and ninety-eight cents ($667 98), within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and
approval of this Agreement.

e. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Repnimand.

8 Any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative case
file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.
uw

40f7

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners




h. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent
understands and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff,
counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants
and agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in
response to information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release
the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts,
peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this
paragraph arising out of, or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration
of the case referenced herein.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of |
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement 1s discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel

7 Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board, and, pending full comphance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed

Sof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

uu
13,



and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case, and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
‘such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

10. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

11, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

12. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term.
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
uw
ut

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada Sate Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(78) 688.2589

we WN

eur 8






Further, Respondent's failure to Femit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as ¢
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this MA er Angus t 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

Wades: Hisar
ALEXANDER J. HINMAN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahi 2 v.20v

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

AGREED TO AND UNDERSTOOD.

DATED this “| day of AVGUST 2024,

yf fe
JOHN TIMOWHY WATZEN, M.D.

License No. 15386

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me by
John Timothy Katzen, M.D. this

day of
2024.
NOTARY PUBLIC PLEASE SEE
THE ATT
fant ce

cay

7of7
OS pss
S

Z
A notary public or other officer completing this
Certificate verifies Only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate
is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
lvalidity of that document.

State of California
County of Los Angeles
—a angeles

Subscribed and Sworn to (or affirmed) before me on this
day of gli saciae + 20.24, by (S|

Proved to me on the basis of Satisfactory evidence to be the
Person(s) who appeared before me.

ARGELIA O#T2
Notary Public» Ca.itoria

ob Angeles County
Commision #2348628 F
Soren. Exptes Feb 12, 2025,

Signati y

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(G75) 688-2559

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521

ta we


15,

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-34676-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the
13th day of September, 2024.

DATED this 13th day of September, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

py, Leet HM Fopscclns—
NICK M. SPIRTOS, MD., FA.C.0G.
Board President

