Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

rat

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-34676-1

Against: FILED

JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D., JUN 28 2024
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. ge dol a
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that John Timothy Katzen, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a physician holding an active
license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 15386). Respondent was originally
licensed by the Board on June 23, 2014, with a specialty in plastic surgery and hand surgery.

2. On or about September 17, 2021, Respondent was served with an Accusation
Notice by the Medical Board of California (Accusation No. 800-2018-051240), alleging gross
negligence, repeated negligent acts, incompetence, and failing to maintain adequate and accurate
medical records in the care and treatment of one patient at the Beverly Hills Sunset Surgery
Center in Los Angeles, California, resulting in a patient death. Respondent was also charged with
unprofessional conduct under the California Penal code.


' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Chowdhury H. Ahsan, M.D. Ph.D., FACC,
Ms. Pamela J. Beal, and Irwin B. Simon, M.D., FACS.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


3. On September 12, 2022, a Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order
(“Settlement Agreement”) was entered into by Respondent and the Medical Board of California,
which was subsequently adopted on February 14, 2023, and became effective on March 16, 2023.
See Exhibit 1.

4. As part of the agreed upon terms of the Settlement Agreement, the Medical Board
of California revoked Respondent’s license; however, the revocation was stayed and Respondent
was placed on probation for a period of five (5) years, subject to the terms and conditions of the
Settlement Agreement, which require(d) Respondent to complete a minimum of forty (40)
additional hours of Continuing Medical Education (CME’s) for each year of probation. Lastly,
Respondent must submit to chart monitoring for the entirety of the probation period and pay eight
thousand eighty-five dollars ($8,085) in costs.

COUNT I
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another Licensing Board

5. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS_ 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state ... or the surrender of the license or discontinuing the practice
of medicine while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

7. Respondent was disciplined by the Medical Board of California when, among other
things, Respondent’s license was revoked, but stayed for a period of five (5) years subject to the
completion of all the terms set forth in the Settlement Agreement that became effective

March 16, 2023.

8. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
ffl
‘ff


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

ke That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3: That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent,

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this why of June, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

ALEXANDER J. HINMAN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman @ medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
28S.
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Chowdhury H. Ahsan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and
states under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent
herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in
the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the
allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct,

DATED this. day of June, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

CHOWDHURY H. AHSAN, M_D., P#’D., FACC
Chairman of the Investigative Committee

4of4

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the First Amended
Accusation Against:

Case No.: 800-2018-051240
John Timothy Katzen, M.D.

Physician’s and Surgeon’s
Certificate No. G 85745

Respondent.

DECISION

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby
adopted as the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California, Department
of Consumer Affairs, State of California.

- This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on March 16, 2023.

IT IS SO ORDERED: February 14, 2023.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

We

Laurie Rose Lubiano, J.D., Chair
Panel A

Medical Board of California
I do herby Certify tl at this document is a true and
ae copy of the orjginal on fileAn this office.

‘Sign: aque

OCU22 (Res 58-2021)
BRRRBREBEBRBE SVE RWVWABEBE ERS


Ros BONTA

Attorney General of California

STEVE DIEHL

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

RYAN J. MCEWAN

Deputy Attomey General

State Bar No. 285595

1300 I Street, Suite 125

P.O. Box 944255

Sacramento, CA 94244-2550
Telephone: (916) 210-7548
Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

in the Matter of the First Amended Accusation | Case No. 800-2018-051240
gainst:
OAH No, 2022010235

97 itshire Blvd., Suite 407
BEverly Hills, CA 90212 STIPULATED SETTLEMENT
Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate
No. G 85745

Respondent,

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-

entitled proceedings that the following matters are true: ,
RITES

1. | William Prasifka (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical Board of
California (Board). He brought this action solely in his official capacity and is represented in this
matter by Rob Bonta, Attorney General of the State of California, by Ryan J. McEwan, Deputy
Attorney General,
‘if
fit


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-051240)


NO Sr  Y
BRRRPBSH SVS RDRBEBHEAS

2, Respondent John Timothy Katzen, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this
proceeding by attorney Peter R. Osinoff, Esq., and Derek F, O’Reilly-Jones, whose address is:
355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1750, Los Angeles, California 90071,

3. On or about June 1, 2000, the Board issued Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No.
G 85745 to John Timothy Katzen, M.D. (Respondent). The Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate
was in full force and effect at all times relevant to the charges brought in Accusation No. 800-
2018-051240, and will expire on June 30, 2024, unless renewed.

JURISDICTION

4, Accusation No. 800-2018-051240 was filed before the Board. The Accusation and all
other statutorily required documents were properly served on Respondent on September 17, 2021,
Respondent timely filed his Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation. The First Amended
Accusation No. 800-2018-051240 was filed on April 14, 2022, and is currently pending against
Respondent. ;

$, Acopyofthe First Amended Accusation No. 800-2018-051240 is attached as exhibit
A and incorporated herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVER:

6. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
charges and allegations in the First Amended Accusation No. 800-2018-051240. Respondent has
also carefully read, fully discussed with his counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

7. Respondent is fully aware of his fegal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearing on the charges and allegations in the First Amended Accusation; the right to confront and
cross-examine the witnesses against him; the right to present evidence and to testify on his own
behalf; the right to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of documents; the right to reconsideration and court review ofan adverse decision;
and all other rights accorded by the Catifornia Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable
laws,

‘tl

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-051240)

- |W BD


1]




8. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up.each and
every right set forth above.

CULPABILITY

9. Respondent understands and agrees that the charges and allegations in the First
Amended Accusation No. 800-2018-05 1240, if proven at a hearing, constitute cause for imposing
discipline upon his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate.

10. Respondent agrees that, at a hearing, Complainant could establish a prima facie case
for the charges in the First Amended Accusation, and that Respondent hereby gives up his right to
contest those charges,

tf. Respondent agrees that his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate is subject to
discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Board’s probationary terms as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below,

. CONTINGENCY

12, This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of California.
Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical
Board of California may communicate directly with the Board regarding this stipulation and
settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or his counse]. By signing the
stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that he may not withdraw his agreement or seek

to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it. Ifthe Board fails

. to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary

Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any lega}
action between the parties, and the Board shall not be disqualified from further action by having
considered this matter.

13. Respondent agrees that if he ever petitions for early termination or modification of
probation, or if an accusation and/or petition to revoke probation is filed against him before the

proceeding or any other licensing proceeding involving Respondent in the State of California.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018+051240)


Nn
2!

14. The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and facsimile
copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including PDF and facsimile
signatures thereto, shall have the same force and effect as the originals. ,

15. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree that
the Board may, without further notice or opportunity to be heard by the Respondent, issue and
enter the following Disciplinary Order:

"DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No. G 8$745 issued
to Respondent JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D. is revoked. However, the revocation is stayed
and Respondent is placed on probation for five (5) years on the following terms and conditions:

1, EDUCATION COURSE, Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this
Decision, and on an annual basis thereafter, Respondent shall submit to the Board or its designee
for its prior approval educational program(s) or course(s) which shall not be less than 40 hours
per year, for each year of probation. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be aimed at
correcting any areas of deficient practice or knowledge and shall be Category I certified. The
educational! program(s) or course(s) shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to
the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. Following the
completion of each course, the Board or its designee may administer an examination to test
Respondent’s knowledge of the course. Respondent shall provide proof of attendance for 65
hours of CME of which 40 hours were in satisfaction of this condition.

2. PRESCRIBING PRACTICES COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective
date of this Decision, Respondent shalt enroll in a course in prescribing practices approved in
advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider
with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of the course
not later than six (6) months after Respondent's initial enrollment. Respondent shall successfully
complete any other component of the course within one (1) year of enrollment. The prescribing

Practices course shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-201 8-05 1240)


il





Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A prescribing practices course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later,

3. MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective
date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in medical record keeping approved in
advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider
with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of the course
not later than six (6) months after Respondent's initial enrollment. Respondent shall successfully
complete any other component of the course within one (1) year of enrollment. The medical
record keeping course shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing
Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal! of licensure.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board

or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition ifthe course would have

been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of

this Decision.
Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.
, 4. PROFESSIONALISM PROGRAM (ETHICS COURSE). Within 60 calendar days of}
the effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a professionalism program, that

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-051240)


NS ee

meets the requirements of Title 16, California Code of Regulations (CCR) section 1358.1.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete that program. Respondent sha!]
provide any information and documents that the program may deem pertinent. Respondent shall
successfully complete the classroom component of the program not Iater than six (6) months after
Respondent’s initial enrollment, and the Jongitudinal component of the program not later than the
time specified by the program, but no later than one (1) year after attending the classroom
component. The professionalism program shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in
addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A professionalism program taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the program would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the program been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the program or not later
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

53, MONITORING - PRACTICE, Within 30 calendar days of the effective date of this

Decision, Respondent shall submit to the Board or its designee for prior approval as a practice
monitor(s), the name and qualifications of one or more licensed physicians and surgeons whose
licenses are valid and in good standing, and who are preferably American Board of Medical
Specialties (ABMS) certified. A monitor shall have no prior or current business or personal
relationship with Respondent, or other relationship that could reasonably be expected to
compromise the ability of the monitor to render fair and unbiased reports to the Board, including
but not limited to any form of bartering, shall be in Respondent's field of practice, and must agree
to serve as Respondent’s monitor. Respondent shall pay all monitoring costs.

The Board or its designee shall provide the approved monitor with copies of the Decision(s)
and Accusation(s), and a proposed monitoring plan. Within 15 calendar days of receipt of the

Decision(s), Accusation(s), and proposed monitoring plan, the monitor shall submit a signed

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-05 1240)

> Ww N


i

statement that the monitor has read the Decision(s) and Accusation(s), fully understands the role
ofa monitor, and agrees or disagrees with the proposed monitoring plan. If the monitor disagrees
with the proposed monitoring plan, the monitor shall submit a revised monitoring plan with the
signed statement for approval by the Board or its designee.

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, and continuing throughout
probation, Respondent’s practice shall be monitored by the approved monitor. Respondent shall
make all records available for immediate inspection and copying on the premises by the monitor
at all times during business hours and shall retain the records for the entire term of probation,

ff Respondent fails to obtain approval of a monitor within 60 calendar days of the effective
date of this Decision, Respondent shall receive a notification from the Board or its designee to
cease the practice of medicine within three (3) calendar days after being so notified. Respondent
shall cease the practice of medicine until a monitor is approved to provide monitoring
responsibility.

The monitor(s) shall submit a quarterly written report to the Board or its designee which
includes an evaluation of Respondent’s performance, indicating whether Respondent’s practices
are within the standards of practice of medicine, and whether Respondent is practicing medicine
safely, billing appropriately or both, It shall be the sole responsibility of Respondent to ensure
that the monitor submits the quarterly written reports to the Board or its designee within 10
calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter.

Ifthe monitor resigns or is no longer available, Respondent shall, within 5 calendar days of
such resignation or unavailability, submit to the Board or its designee, for prior approval, the
name and qualifications of a replacement monitor who will be assuming that responsibility within
15 calendar days, If Respondent fails to obtain approval of'a replacement monitor within 60
calendar days of the resignation or unavailability of the monitor, Respondent shall receive a
Notification from the Board or its designee to cease the practice of medicine within three (3)
calendar days after being so notified. Respondent shall cease the practice of medicine until a
replacement monitor is approved and assumes monitoring responsibility,

In fieu of a monitor, Respondent may participate in a professional enhancement program

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-201 8-05 1240)


ee en
BRRRERKRPFSVeWRAREGBEEAS

approved in advance by the Board or its designee that includes, at minimum, quarterly chart
review, semi-annual practice assessment, and semi-annual review of professional growth and
education. Respondent shall participate in the professional enhancement program at Respondent's
expense during the term of probation.

6. NOTIFICATION. Within seven (7) days of the effective date of this Decision, the
Respondent shall provide a true copy of this Decision and the First Amended Accusation to the
Chief of Staff or the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership
are extended to Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of
medicine, including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the
Chief Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage
to Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board or its designee within
15 calendar days,

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or insurance carrier.

7. QBEY ALLLAWS. Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules
governing the practice of medicine in Callfornia and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered crimina! probation, payments, and other orders.

8. _ INVESTIGATION/ENFORCEMENT COST RECOVERY. Respondent is hereby
ordered to reimburse the Board its costs of investigation and enforcement, in the amount of
$8,085.00. Costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of California. Failure to pay such costs
shall be considered a violation of probation.

Payment must be made in full withia 30 calendar days of the effective date of the Order, or
by a payment plan approved by the Medical Board of California. Any and all requests for a
payment plan shall be submitted in writing by respondent to the Board. Failure to comply with
the payment plan shall be considered a violation of probation.

The filing of bankruptcy by respondent shall not relieve respondent of the responsibility to
repay investigation and enforcement costs.

9. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS, Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has been

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-051240)


a
RBxePePeRRRRRE BSB DADE BRAS

compliance with all the conditions of probation. ;

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations not later than [0 calendar days after the end
of the preceding quarter. ‘

10. GENERAL PROBATION REQUIREMENTS.

Compliance with Probation Unit

Respondent shall comply with the Board’s probation unit. _

Address Changes

Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of Respondent’s business and
residence addresses, email address (if available), and telephone number, Changes of such
addresses shall be immediately communicated in writing to the Board or its designee. Under no |
circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business
and Professions Code section 2021, subdivision (b).

Place of Practice

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s or patient’s place
of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled nursing facility or other similar licensed
facility.

License Renewal

Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and surgeon's
license.

Travel or Residence Outside California

Respondent shall immediately inform the Board or its designee, in writing, of travel to any
areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last, more than thirty
(30) calendar days.

In the event Respondent should feave the State of California to reside or to practice
Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of
departure and return.

11. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE. Respondent shall be

available in person upon request for interviews either at Respondent’s place of business or at the

9 .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-051240)


PRR RRRBEESSEYVA BESET S

probation unit office, with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

12, NON-PRACTICE WHILE ON PROBATION. Respondent shall notify the Board or
its designee in writing within 15 calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than
30 calendar days and within 15 calendar days of Respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice is
defined as any period of time Respondent is not practicing medicine as defined in Business and
Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at least 40 hours in a calendar month in direct
patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board. If
Respondent resides in Catifornia and is considered to be in non-practice, Respondent shall
comply with all terms and conditions of probation. All time spent in an intensive training
program which has been approved by the Board or its designee shall not be considered non-
practice and does not relieve Respondent from complying with all the terms and conditions of
probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United States or Federal jurisdiction while
on probation with the medical licensing authority of that state or jurisdiction shall not be
considered non-practice. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a
period of non-practice.

In the event Respondent's period of non-practice while on probation exceeds 18 calendar
months, Respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State Medical Boards’s Special
Purpose Examination, or, at the Board’s discretion, a clinical competence assessment program
that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current version of the Board’s “Manual of Model
Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two (2) years,

Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term.

Periods of non-practice for a Respondent residing outside of California will relieve
Respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the
exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws;
General Probation Requirements; and Quarterly Declarations.

13, COMPLETION OF PROBATION. Respondent shail comply with all financial

obligations (¢.g., restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-05 1240)


en
BNRRRRBREBSRERUABDTEBEHRrS

completion of probation. This term does not include cost recovery, which is due within 30
calendar days of the effective date of the Order, or by a payment plan approved by the Medical

Board and timely satisfied. Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent’ certificate
shall be fully restored,

14. VIOLATION OF PROBATION. Failure to fully comply with any term or condition
of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any respect, the
Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke probation and
casry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, or Petition to Revoke Probation,
or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation, the Board shal! have
continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation shall be extended until
the matter is final.

15. LICENSE SURRENDER. Following the effective date of this Decision, if
Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request to surrender his or her license.
The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion in
determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate
and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, Respondent
shalf within 15 calendar days deliver Respondent's wailet and wall certificate to the Board or its
designee and Respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject
to the terms and conditions of probation. If Respondent re-applies for a medical ficense, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement ofa revoked certificate.

16. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS. Respondent shall pay the costs associated
with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which
may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of
California and delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 ofeach calendar
year.

17, FUTURE ADMISSIONS CLAUSE. IfRespondent should ever apply or reapply for
a new license or certification, or petition for reinstatement of a license, by any other health care

it
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-051240)


a a
BNRRRRBERSSESEUVABDESS ETS

licensing action agency in the State of California, all of the charges and allegations contained in
the First Amended Accusation No. 800-201 8-051240 shall be deemed to be true, correct, and

admitted by Respondent for the purpose of any Statement of Issues or any other proceeding

seeking to deny or restrict license.

ACCEPTANCE ‘

I have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
discussed it with my attorney, Derek F. O’Reilly-Jones, Esq. T understand the Stipulation and the
effect it will have on my Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate. I enter into this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be
bound by the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California.

pares: 4/(2)2p22 () 7;

TON TIMOTHY RX
Respondent

I have read and fully discussed with Respondent John Timothy Katzen, M.D. the terms and

conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

T approve its form and content.

DATED: 09/12/2022 Deru O' heal Rack ~ eon)

DEREK F, sas ee ee ESQ.
Attorney for Respondent

ttl
‘tt
Mtl
Mit
tit
fll
Mf]
‘tt
Ai
‘fl

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-05 1240)



ENDORSEMENT

The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully
submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California.

patep: “4 | 13] Zoe Respectfully submitted,

LA2020602946,
36523798.docx

Rob BONTA

Attorney General of California
STEVE DIEHL

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

” RYAN J, MCEWAN’

Deputy Anormey General
Attorneys for Complainant

“13

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2018-05 1240)


RBs RPRRBBS EF BSGe Ra aRBEHKR AS

Ros BONTA

Attomey General of California

STEVEN D, MUNI

Supervising Deputy Attomey General

RYAN J. MCEWAN

Deputy Attorney General

State Bar No. 285595 .

California Department of Justice

1300 I Street, Suite 125

P.O. Box 944255

Sacramento, CA 94244-2550
Telephone: (916) 210-7548
Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

nN

hn the Matter of the First Amended Accusation’ | Case No. 800-2018-051240
gainst:
FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION
JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D. .
9735 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 407
Beverly Hills, CA 90212
Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate
‘No. G 85745,
Respondent.
PARTIES

1. William Prasifka (Complainant) brings this First Amended Accusation solely in his
official capacity as the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California, Department of
Consumer Affairs.(Board). ,

2. Onor about June 1, 2000, the Medical Board issued Physician’s and Surgeon’s
Certificate No. G 85745 to John Timothy Katzen, M.D. (Respondent). The Physician’s and
Surgeon’s Certificate was in full force and effect at all times relevant to the charges brought
herein and will expire on June 30, 2022, unless renewed.

a

(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO, 800-2018-051240


° ee
BPRBRBRBRYNYNYESZFRARGS ES

JURISDICTION

3. This First Amended Accusation is brought before the Board, under the authority of
the following laws. All section references are to the Business and Professions Code (Code) unless
otherwise indicated. .

4. Section 2227 of the Code provides that a licensee who is found guilty under the
Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended for a period not to exceed .
one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of probation monitoring, or such other
action taken in relation to discipline as the Board deems proper. ;

5. Section 2234 of the Code, states:

“The board shall take action against any licensee who is charged with

unprofessional conduct, In addition to other provisions of this article, unprofessional!

conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:

“(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, assisting in or
abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate any provision of this chapter.

“(b) Gross negligence.

“(c) Repeated negligent acts. To be repeated, there must be two or more

negligent acts or omissions. An initial negligent act or omission followed by a

separate and distinct departure from the applicable standard of care shall constitute

repeated negligent acts, ,

“(1) An initial negligent diagnosis followed by an act or omission medically
appropriate for that negligent diagnosis of the patient shall constitute a single

negligent act. ;

(2) When the standard of care requires a change in the diagnosis, act, or

omission that constitutes the negligent act described in paragraph (1), including, but

not limited to, a reevaluation of the diagnosis or a change in treatment, and the

licensee’s conduct departs from the applicable standard of care, each departure

constitutes a separate and distinct breach of the standard of care,

*(d) Incompetence.

GOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO. 800-2018-051240



“(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption that is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and

surgeon.

“(£) Any action or conduct that would have warranted the denial of a certificate.
“(g) The failure by a certificate holder, in the absence of good cause, to attend

and participate in an interview by the board. This subdivision shall only apply to a ,

certificate holder who is the subject of an investigation by the board.”

6. Section 2266 of the Code states: “The failure of a physician,and surgeon to maintain
adequate and accurate records relating to the provision of services to their patients constitutes
unprofessional conduct.”

COST RECOVERY

7. Section 125.3 of the Code provides, in pertinent part, that the Board may request the
administrative law judge to direct a licensee found to have committed a violation or violations of
the licensing act to pay a sum not to exceed the reasonable costs of the investigation and ,
enforcement of the case, with failure of the licensee to comply subjecting the license to not being
renewed or reinstated, If a case settles, recovery of investigation and enforcement costs may be
included in a stipulated settlement.

FACTUAL SUMMARY
Initial Consultation — Patient A.

8. Respondent is a practicing plastic surgeon. Patient A,’ a 38-year-old female, sought
consultation with Respondent regarding body contouring on or about September 26, 2018. Patient
A had undergone bariatric surgery? in April of 2017, and after losing over 100 pounds, had
maintained a stable weight at the time of the consultation. © ,

9. During the consultation, Patient A filled out several forms regarding her medical

history. Patient A reported a height of five feet, seven inches, and a weight of 217 pounds.

' For the purpose of privacy, the patient’s name is omitted. Respondent is aware of the
identity of Patient A.

2 Bariatric surgery (or weight loss surgery) includes a variety of procedures performed on
obese people to aid weight loss.

. 3
GOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO. 800-2018-051240



Respondent made several notations on these forms; however, there was no documentation of a
physical exam performed, a discussion of options for treatment, or a discussion of surgical risks.

10, Patient A was given a surgical fee quote that included four procedures fo be
performed in one surgical-setting: abdominoplasty,? brachioplasty,* mastopexy® and breast
augmentation,° and thoracoplasty,”

Follow-up Visits.

11. On October 10, 2018, Respondent’s office contacted the Beverly Hills Sunset Surgery

Center (BHSSC) to schedule surgery for Patient A. The estimated surgical time was 12 hours,

"12, Patient A returned to Respondent's office for a follow-up appointment on November
13, 2018. The only documentation regarding this visit is a form listing the choice of breast
implant size, There is no further documentation regarding this visit.

13, On November 28, 2018, Patient A again visited Respondent’s office for a pre-
operative appointment, There is no pre-operative note documenting this visit; however, Patient A
signed consent forms for abdominoplasty, brachioplasty, breast augmentation and mastopexy, and
thoracoplasty. Additionally, Respondent prescribed the following medications to Patient A: 10
tablets of Demerol 50 mg (to take every four hours as needed); 60 tablets of Valium? 5mg (to

take every six hours as needed); and 90 tablets of Percocet! 10 mg-325 mg (1-2 tablets every six

3 Abdominoplasty or “tummy tuck” is a cosmetic surgery procedure used to make the
abdomen thinner and firmer, The surgery involves the removal of excess skin and fat from the
middle and lower abdomen in order to tighten the muscle and connective tissue of the abdominal
wall. .

4 Brachioplasty, commonly known as an “arm lift,” is a surgical procedure to reshape and
provide contour to the upper arms and connection area of chest wall.

5 Mastopexy or “breast lift” Is the plastic surgery procedure for raising sagging breasts, by
changing and modifying the size, contour, and elevation of the breasts.’

Breast augmentation is a cosmetic surgery technique using breast implants to increase
the size, change the shape, and alter the texture of the breasts.

TA thoracoplasty is a cosmetic surgical procedure that removes skin and fat from the
upper torso, :

8 Demerol is the brand name for pethidine, also known as meperidine. It is a synthetic
opioid pain medication used to treat moderate to severe pain.

. ? Valium, also known as diazepam, is a benzodiazepine commonly used to treat a range of
conditions, including anxiety, seizures, and muscle spasms.
“10 Percocet is the brand name for oxycodone. It is an opioid that is used to treat moderate
to severe short-term pain.

4 .
(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO. 800-2018-051240



hours as needed),!! At this same appointment, Patient A was instructed to obtain surgical
clearance from her primary care physician, a mammogram, chest x-ray, and various blood tests.
During an interview with Board investigators on July 27, 2020 (the “Board Interview”),
Respondent stated that he “wanted her, and she wanted to lose another 20 pounds before the
surgery.”

14. Patient A was cleared for surgery by a physician assistant and there were no
abnormalities noted in any of her testing. The physician assistant’s supervising physician did not
co-sign the history and physical examination. ,

Surgery of December 3, 2018

15. On December 3, 2018, Patient A arrived at BHSSC at 6:00 a.m. Patient A signed
additional documents giving BHSSC permission to administer anesthesia. Respondent marked
Patient A inthe upright position. The pre-operative history and physical form listed Patient A’s

pre-operative vital signs as normal. Her height was recorded as five feet, seven inches, and her

. weight as 216.1 pounds,!? The physical exam portion on the form was marked with a stamped

“Patient was cleared by Internist.” There is no documentation that Respondent (or an agent of
Respondent) verified Patient A’s history and physical. Patient A was placed in the operating room
at 7:00 a.m. At 7:50 a.m., Patient A was placed under general anesthesia and surgery commenced.
16. Respondent began by performing the brachioplasty on both upper arms. Respondent
then proceeded with the breast augmentation, placing breast implants weighing 600 cubic
centimeters in a subglandular’? position. Respondent then performed the mastopexy, creating a

bipedicle flap’ for the nipple areolar complexes (NAC).'§ After the completion of the mastopexy,

" The maximum amount allowed under Respondent’s prescription would constitute a
daily morphine milligram equivalent (MME) of 120. According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, this would place the patient at an 8.9x higher risk of overdose.

'2 This corresponds to a body mass index (BMD of 33.8, which is categorized as an
“obese” body weight for adults of that height. .

'3 Subglandular describes an implant pocket position that is beneath or deep to the glands
of the breast, but superficial to the pectoral muscle. .

'4 A bipedicle flap is a flap, a mass of tissue for grafting, that receives a blood supply from
two pedicles. A pedicle is a stem or stalk of tissue that connects parts of the body to each other.

'5 The nipple areolar complex is the area positioned in the center of the human breast
which contains the nipple and the areola.

(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO. 800-2018-051240


BP RRR RRBERBR SEB RB AAREBHEA SE

Respondent noted darkness to the NACs, with the right side being darker than the left side. Due to
venous congestion, !* Respondent removed the NACs in addition to some underlying breast
tissues. Respondent placed the NACs as full thickness grafts"” and created bolster dressings"
over these grafts. According to Respondent, the response to this complication added two hours to
the operative time. Respondent then performed a vertical, lateral thoracoplasty followed by
abdominoplasty. He also inserted a pain pump to slowly deliver local anesthesia to the muscle
repair. Surgery was completed at.8:30 p.m. . ,

Post-Surgery

17. Dressings were placed on the surgical sites and the arms and breasts were wrapped
with dressing, Patient A was taken to the Post Anesthesia Care Unit at 9:10 p.m. Patient A’s vital
signs were stable throughout the procedure and in the recovery room. ;

18, Post-surgery, the weight of tissue removed from the abdomen, arms, lateral chest, and
breasts appeared to weigh 15.11 pounds.

19, At11:30 p.m., Patient A was transferred to Serenity Aftercare Facility (SAF) via
ambulance. The admission order stated that Respondent was to see Patient A at SAF. The
expected length of stay was one night. ,

20. During her stay, Patient A received intravenous fluids, pain medication, and
antibiotics. Additionally, Lovenox!? was given to prevent deep vein thrombosis.” It was noted
that SAF was to check with Respondent for the discharge order.

21, While at SAF, Patient A was in stable condition. She was kept on bedrest with

intravenous fluid hydration and urinary drainage via a catheter. Patient A’s wounds were not

16 Venous congestion is the engorgement of veins with blood..It is known to occur with
deep venous thrombosis. :

17 A full-thickness graft consists of the epidermis, the outermost layer of the skin, and the
entire thickness of the dermis, the thick layer of living tissue below the epidermis which forms the
true skin, containing blood capillaries, nerve endings, sweat glands, hair follicles, and other
structures.

'8 « bolster dressing is a pack of firm dressing bandaged to the area of a skin graft to
apply constant pressure, promoting healing.

19 Lovenox is a brand of enoxaparin sodium used as an anticoagulant medication (blood
thinner) to treat and prevent deep vein thrombosis. ;

20 Deep vein thrombosis occurs when a bload clot forms in one or more of the deep veins
in the body, usually in the legs.

(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO, 800-2018-051240


RBNRRRBBE BSe DP ABESR AS

assessed by the staff of SAF as there were orders not to remove any dressings.

22. On December 5, 2018 at 10:15 a.m., Patient A complained of severe pain and
teceived one table of Percocet. Patient A was subsequently discharged at 1:05 p.m. via ambulance
and transported to her home. Upon discharge, Patient A was ordered not to remove any dréssing
until her first post-surgery appointment with Respondent. Her Foley catheter remained in place.
The first post-surgery appointment was scheduled for December 12, 2018. Additionally, Patient A
was given Lovenox, syringes, and needles to use at home after discharge to complete a 14-day
course. Respondent also prescribed 40 tablets of 500 mg of Cipro”! to be taken twice daily post-
surgery.

23. The day after Patient A’s discharge, she was found unresponsive at home by her
mother. Patient A was pronounced dead at South Coast Global Medical Center in Santa Ana, CA.
The cause of death listed by the coroner was “acute bronchopneumonia.””? A private autopsy
attributed Patient A’s death to respiratory failure caused by the combination of opioid and
diazepam reducing respiratory drive, and the post-surgical physical restriction of chest movement.|

24. There is no documentation in the record of SAF that Respondent communicated with
SAF or Patient A after the surgery on December 3, 2018. There is no documentation in
Respondent’s record that he communicated with SAF or Patient A after the surgery on December
3, 2018. :

’ FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Gross Negligence)

25. Respondent’s license is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234, subdivision
(b), of the Code, in that he committed gross negligence during the care and treatment of Patient
A, as more particularly alleged in paragraphs 8 through 24 above, which are hereby incorporated
by reference and realleged as if fully set forth herein. Additional! circumstances are as follows:

26. Respondent committed grossly negligent acts, including but not limited to:

2) Cipro is a brand of ciprofloxacin, which is an antibiotic used to treat a number of
bacterial infections. ,

22 Bronchopneumonia is a subtype of pneumonia. It is the acute inflammation of the
bronchi, the passages or airways in the respiratory system, accompanied by inflamed patches in
the nearby small lobes of the lungs,

(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO, 800-2018-051240


poe RP RBRBBEBBSGaRWIaABEBR AS

A. Performing four major cosmetic surgeries (abdominoplasty, brachioplasty,
mastopexy and breast augmentation, and thoracoplasty) in one setting, as inappropriately
combining procedures increases patient risk of complications and even death; and

B. Failing to visit, speak to, or examine Patient A post-surgery during her stay at
SAF.

27. Respondent’s acts and/or omissions as set forth in paragraphs 8 through 26, inclusive,
whether proven individually, jointly, or in any combination thereof, constitute gross negligence
pursuant to section 2234, subdivision (b), of the Code. Therefore, cause for discipline exists.

SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Repeated Acts of Negligence)
28. Respondent’s license is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234, subdivision
(c), of the Code, in that he) committed repeated negligent acts during the care and treatment of
Patient A, as more particularly alleged in paragraphs 8 through 27 above, which are hereby.
incorporated by reference and realleged as if fully set forth herein. Additional circumstances are
as follows: , ,
29. Respondent committed the following additional negligent acts, including but not
limited to:
A. Planning and staging the performance of 12 hours of elective cosmetic surgery in
one sitting for an obese patient;
B. Failing to fully document patient encounters on September 26, 2018, November
13, 2018, and November 28, 2018; :
C. Failing to verify the history and physical of Patient A on the day of the surgery,
December 3, 2018; ,
D. Prescribing'an excessive amount of Percocet to Patient A in terms of the daily
morphine milligram equivalent as well as the total volume of medication;

E. Prescribing an excessive amount of Valium, in combination with opioid pain

. medication, to Patient A;

F. Prescribing a 20-day course of antibiotics (Cipro) to Patient A for post-surgery
8° ;
(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO. 800-2018-051240

—_



use that was not indicated; and
G. Leaving a Foley catheter in place with a plan not to remove it until the patient's
first post-operative visit nine days after surgery.

30. Respondent’s acts and/or omissions as set forth in paragraphs 8 through 29, inclusive,
whether proven individually, jointly, or in any combination thereof, constitute repeated acts of
negligence pursuant to section 2234, subdivision (c}, of the Code. Therefore, cause for discipline
exists. ;

THIRD CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Incompetence)

31. By reason of the facts set forth in paragraphs 8 through 30, inclusive, Respondent’s
license is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234, subdivision (d), of the Code, in that he
was incompetent in the care and treatment of Patient A, particularly with respect to Respondent’s
decision to prescribe an excessive amount of Percocet to Patient A.

32. Respondent’s acts and/or omissions as set forth in paragraphs 8 through 31, inclusive,
whether proven individually, jointly, or in any combination thereof, constitute incompetence
pursuant to section 2234, subdivision (d), of the Code. Therefore, cause for discipline exists.

FOURTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Failure to Maintain Adequate Records)

: 33. By reason of the facts set forth in paragraphs 8 through 32, inclusive, Respondent’s
license is subject'to disciplinary action under section 2266 of the Code in that he failed to
maintain adequate records in the care and treatment of Patient A. ;

34. Respondent’s acts and/or omissions as set forth in paragraphs 8 through 33, inclusive,
whether proven individually, jointly, or in any combination thereof, constitute failure to maintain
adequate records pursuant to section 2266 of the Code. Therefore, cause for discipline exists.

HIETH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Unprofessional Conduct)
35. By reason of the facts set forth in paragraphs 8 through 34, inclusive, Respondent's

license is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234 of the Code in that he engaged in

(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO. 800-2018-051240


. w Le ee a

unprofessional conduct when he violated section 2234, subdivisions (b) through (d), and section
2266 of the Code, In addition, Respondent engaged in conduct which breaches the rules or ethical
code of the medical profession, or conduct which is unbecoming a member in good standing of
the medical profession, and which demonstrates an unfitness to practice medicine.

36, Respondent’s acts and/or omissions as set forth in paragraphs 7 through 34, inclusive,
whether proven individually, jointly, or in any combination thereof; constitute unprofessional
conduct, Therefore, cause for discipline exists.

PRAYER

WHEREFORE, Complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein alleged,
and that following the hearing, the Medical Board of California issue a decision:

I. Revoking or suspending Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No. G 85745, issued
to Respondent, John Timothy Katzen, M.D.;

2. ° Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Respondent, John Timothy Katzen,
M.D.’s authority to supervise physician assistants and advanced practice nurses;

3. Ordering Respondent, John Timothy Katzen, M.D., to pay the Board the costs of the
investigation and enforcement of this case, and if placed on probation, the costs of probation
monitoring; and

4. Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and proper.

DATED: APR 14 2022 Reji Varghese

(4, WILLIAM PRASIFKA Deputy Director
KM Executive Director .
Medical Board of California

Department of Consumer Affairs

State of California
Complainant
1LA2020602946
36037147.docx

(JOHN TIMOTHY KATZEN, M.D.) FIRST AMENDED ACCUSATION CASE NO, 800-2018-051240

