9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

u
1B

a7

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-45880-1
Against: FILED

ALI HUSSEIN AHMAD, M.1

JUL 17 2024

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINE!
By:

Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee' (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel and attomey for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Ali Hussein Ahmad, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC's
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 16938). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on February 9, 2017.

2. On February 16, 2022, the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer
Affairs, State of California, entered a Decision, which adopted a previous Proposed Decision and
Order issued by an Administrative Law Judge, Office of Administrative Hearings.
See Exhibit 1. Through its Decision, and based on the Proposed Decision and Order, the
Medical Board of California revoked Respondent's license with the State of California, The
Medical Board of California further stayed this revocation and placed Respondent on probation

for five (5) years on several terms and conditions.

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Col. Eric D. Wade,
USAF (Ret.), Carl N, Williams Jr, M.D, FACS.

lof4

{9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(778) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

a

a

25,

3. The underlying basis for discipline was that Respondent excessively prescribed
controlled substances to Patients | and 2, engaged in repeated negligent acts in treating Patients 1
and 2, engaged in unprofessional conduct in treating Patients 1 and 2, demonstrated
incompetence in treating Patient 1, and maintained inadequate medical records for Patient 1

COUNT I
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board

4. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

5. _NRS_630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state ... [o]r the surrender of the license or discontinuing the
practice of medicine while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for initiating|
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

6 Respondent was disciplined by another state when the Medical Board of California,
Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California, entered its Decision, revoking Respondent's
California medical license, staying the revocation, and placing Respondent on probation for five
(5) years.

7. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

dd

2o0f4

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

a

g

3t
Zeoa8
gers
masse
Eyal
S43

gs

E


premises.

DATED this | 1 aay of July, 2024.

By:

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

Mtl,

WILLIAM P. SHOGREN
Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email shogrenw@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examinert
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2889

a
2B


‘VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of |
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of|
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 17th day of July, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Chairman ofhhe Investigative Committee

4o0f4

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 18th day of July, 2024, I served a file-stamped copy of the foregoing COMPLAINT,



via USPS Certified Mail, postage pre-paid, to the following parties:

ALI HUSSEIN AHMAD, M.D.
320 Superior Ave., Ste. 260
Newport Beach, CA 92663

Tracking No.: 9171 9690 0

1935 0254 6114 79

“Ny
DATED this_\@ day of July, 2024.

MERCEDES FWENTES

Legal Assistant
Nevada State B

bard of Medical Examiners

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation
Against:

Case No.: 800-2017-035109
All Ahmad, M.D.

Physician’s and Surgeon's:
Certificate No. C 127870

Respondent.

DECISION

The attached Proposed Decision is hereby adopted as the Decision and
Order of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, State
of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on March 18, 2022.

IT IS SO ORDERED: February 16, 2022.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

Near

Laurle Rose Lubiano, J.D., Chair
Panel A

Medical Board of Cali
1 do herby Certify: that
con ms gp hep
Ad

Te ait adios

Tie
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation against:
ALI AHMAD, M.D.,
Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate No. C 127870,
Respondent.
Agency Case No. 800-2017-035109

OAH No. 2021020715

PROPOSED DECISION

Howard W. Cohen, Administrative Law Judge, Office of Administrative Hearings
(OAH), State of California, heard this matter on September 27 through 30, 2021, by
video and teleconference.

Claudia Morehead, Deputy Attorney General, represented complainant William

Prasifka, Executive Director, Medical Board of California (Board), Department of
Consumer Affairs.

Anthony F. Witteman and Adam G. Wentland, Attorneys at Law, represented
respondent Ali Ahmad, M.D.
A protective order sealing portions of the record issued separately.

At hearing, complainant moved to allow an amendment to the Accusation to

correct a misspelling, changing *Lipoderm* to “Lipoden* wherever that term appears,
The motion was granted.

Oral and documentary evidence was received. The record was held open for
closing briefing and submission of redacted exhibits and a corrected request for a
protective order, All closing briefs were timely filed. Complainant's closing brief was
marked for identification as exhibit 30, Respondent's closing brief was marked for
identification as exhibit U. Complainant's reply closing brief was marked for
identification as exhibit 31.

The record was closed and the matter was submitted for decision on December
8, 2021.

SUMMARY

Complainant seeks to discipline respondent's physician's and surgeon's
certificate on grounds of excessive prescribing of controlled substances, repeated
negligent acts, and unprofessional conduct with respect to Patients 1 and 2, and
incompetence and inadequate recordkeeping with respect to Patient 1.

Respondent asserts cause for discipline does not exist.

Based on the evidentiary record, respondent's certificate shall be revoked, the
revocation shall be stayed, and respondent shall be placed on five years’ probation.
FACTUAL FINDINGS

Jurisdiction

1, The Board issued Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. C 127870 to
respondent on November 19, 2013. The certificate was scheduled to expire on
November 30, 2021. The evidence did not establish whether respondent renewed his
license. Any lapse of a license by operation of law does not deprive the Board of
jurisdiction to proceed with any investigation of or action or disciplinary proceeding

against such license, or to render a decision suspending or revoking such license. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 118.)

2. Complainant brought the Accusation against respondent in his official
capacity as Executive Director of the Board. Respondent filed a Notice of Defense. This
hearing ensued.

Complainant's Allegations Regarding Respondent's Treatment of
Patients 1 and 2

3. Respondent is a family medicine physician in private practice at his clinic
in San Pedro since July 2015; he previously operated a clinic in Long Beach, which
closed in 2016.

4, Complainant alleges, with respect to two patients, Patient 1 and Patient
2, that respondent engaged in:

(a) excessive prescribing of controlled substances, specifically,

administering weekly injections of Toradol to both patients, exceeding the
recommended period of use, and prescribing excessive quantities of promethazine

with codeine to Patient 2 for an excessive period of time (first cause for discipline);

(b) repeated negligent acts in care and treatment (second cause for
discipline), including,

() with respect to Patient 1, prescribing opioids before the first
fecorded visit, failing to monitor and document tHe patient's response to opioids,
failing to prescribe non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) instead of chronic
opioids, continuing to prescribe opioids without obtaining imaging studies, treating
anxiety and depression with regular human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) injections,
administering vitamin B12 replacement therapy without indication, prescribing
ceftriaxone (Rocephin), azithromycin, and Tussionex (a cough medication containing
hydrocodone) without documenting a proper examination or diagnosis, prescribing
Norco, which contains hydrocodone, and Tussionex concurrently, and administering

weekly Toradol injections, and,

(ii) with respect to Patient 2, administering weekly Toradol
injections without monitoring for side effects, administering vitamin B12 replacement
therapy without indication, administering testosterone replacement therapy without
indication, evaluation, or monitoring, administering regular injections of Lipoden and
hCG without indication, and prescribing promethazine with codeine in excessive

quantities and for an excessive period of time;

(c) incompetence in the care and treatment of Patient 1 (third cause for
discipline), specifically, by demonstrating a lack of knowledge in his diagnosis and

treatment of the patient's menstrual irregularities and vitamins 812 and D deficiencies;
(d) inadequate record keeping by failing to properly record medications
Prescribed to treat Patient 1's anxiety and by prescribing ceftriaxone, azithromycin,
and Tussionex but failing to document a proper examination and diagnosis of, and

duplicating opioid treatment for, Patient 1 (fourth cause for discipline); and

(e) unprofessional conduct with respect to the care and treatment of
Patients 1 and 2.

5. At hearing, complainant acknowledged that the evidence did not
substantiate certain allegations of departures from the standard of care.

a. Complainant conceded that two repeated acts of negligence
alleged in the second cause for discipline, at paragraph 42, subparagraphs (g) and (h),
concerning the concurrent prescribing of Tussionex and Norco to Patient 1, require
modification to conform to the evidence. Complainant acknowledged that, due to the
relatively negligible amount of hydrocodone in Tussionex, prescribing 10 Norco (which
contains hydrocodone) and Tussionex is not, itself, a departure from the standard of

care.

b. Complainant acknowledged that the departure alleged in
paragraph 42, subparagraph (a) concerning respondent's prior treatment of Patient 1
and part of the departure alleged in paragraph 42, subparagraph (3), concerning a
failure to obtain prior imaging studies of Patient 1 are unsubstantiated. Complainant
acknowledged that the evidence showed respondent treated Patient No. 1 at another
clinic before seeing her at his newly opened San Pedro clinic, and he did not, as
alleged, write prescriptions for her months before he ever saw her. Complainant did
not modify its allegations regarding departures during the time period documented in
the medical records for Patient 1 (October 3, 2015, to January 5, 2017).

Expert Witnesses

6 Complainant designated Bernard L. Katz, M.D. as an expert witness, Dr.
Katz received his medical degree from the Baylor College of Medicine in 1987. He
completed a four-year residency in family medicine at Santa Monica Hospital in 1990
and was Chief Resident there from 1989 to 1990. He also obtained a Master of
Business Administration degree from the UCLA Anderson School of Business in 1999,
Dr. Katz was board-certified in family medicine in 1990, 1997, 2004, and 2014, and in
geriatrics in 2005 and 2018 by the American Board of Family Practice. He became a
Medical Review Officer in 2018, has served as an expert reviewer for the Board since
2010, and received a Hospice Medical Director certification in 2021. He serves on the
Primary Care Committee at UCLA Health and as Chair of the Quality Management
Committee at UCLA Medical Group. He also served on the Pharmacy and Therapeutics
Committee at Providence Saint John’s Health Center from 2014 to 2018, He has been
an Assistant Professor of Family Medicine at the David Geffen School of Medicine at
UCLA since 2011. Dr. Katz is licensed to practice in California, He practiced family
medicine with Santa Monica Bay Physicians in Pacific Palisades from 1990 to 2010 and
has practiced family medicine as a member and as the Medical Director of the UCLA
Health Community Physician Network since 2011. He has also been the Medical

Director of Luxe Hospice in Pacific Palisades since 2018 and of the CVS MinuteClinic of
California since 2009.

7. Respondent designated Bernard R. Wilcosky, M.D. as an expert witness.
Dr, Wilcosky received his medical degree from Duke University in 1981. He completed
a rotating internship in 1982, a residency in Anesthesia and Operative Service in 1984,
and a fellowship in Cardiothoracic Anesthesia in 1985, all at Letterman Army Medical
Center in San Francisco. He is a diplomate of the National Board of Medical Examiners

(1982), the American Board of Anesthesiology (1985), with a certificate of added
qualifications in pain management (1993, recertified in 2004), the American Academy
of Pain Medicine (1993). He was certified by the American Academy of Pain
Management (1993) and received an Advanced Prescriber Certificate (2015). He was on
the teaching staff in the Anesthesia Residency and was the Director of the Pain
Management Clinic from 1985 to 1989 at Letterman Army Medical Center. He was the
Associate Medical Director of Pain Treatment Services from 1988 to 2001, and the
Medical Director of Patient Treatment Services from 2001 to 2006, at Sequoia Hospital
in Redwood City. Dr. Wilcosky is licensed to practice in California and has practiced as
a pain medicine consultant since 2016. Prior to that, he was a staff anesthesiologist at
‘Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City from 1988 to 2016, at Marshal Hale Memorial
Hospital from 1986 to 1989, and at Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children from 1987
to 1998, and he held various committee appointments and clinical positions at
Letterman Army Medical Center from 1985 to 1989.

8. Dr. Katz and Dr. Wilcosky testified as to the applicable standard of care in

treating Patients 1 and 2, the subject of complainant's allegations.

9. Dr. Katz testified that the applicable standard of care in Los Angeles
County and in California from March 2015 through December 2018 was that level of
skill, knowledge, and care in diagnosis and treatment ordinarily possessed and
exercised by other reasonably careful and prudent physicians in the same or similar
circumstances at the time in question. A simple departure from the standard of care
occurs when a doctor fails to use that knowledge to prudently treat a patient's

condition. Lack of knowledge is the absence of a qualification of fitness to perform a
function.
10. According to Dr. Katz, the standard of care for prescribing controlled
substances for pain during the relevant time period required the doctor to evaluate
the patient's complaint of pain; prescribe effective treatments with the least potential
for harm, ranging from analgesics and NSAID's to narcotics; use other modalities, e.g,
Physical therapy and laser treatments; regularly reevaluate the patient for the
effectiveness of the treatment applied and for side effects; and determine whether an
additional referral is needed. Dr. Katz recognized the potential adverse consequences
of stopping a patient's opioids if the patient is dependent on them, stating that
attempts should be made to taper the medications “if appropriate.” Dr. Katz's

discussion of the standard of care as applied to other charges against respondent's
Practices appears below.

11. _ Dr. Wilcosky testified that the standard of care will probably vary
geographically within California, depending on health care accessibility and insurance.
The patient population a doctor encounters will have occupational exposures present
in some areas of California but not others, leading to differing health considerations
for a clinician to address. Respondent's patients were relatively underserved in the area
of referral physicians, such as pain management specialists, thereby shifting some of
the responsibility for managing pain onto the primary care physician. Respondent
Practiced in an industrial harbor area, with concomitant hazardous environmental and

‘occupational exposures that may differ from exposures in other areas in the state, so

the standard of care may vary.

12. With respect to opioid management, which Dr. Wilcosky testified was
“the gist’ of his involvement in this case, respondent met the standard of care and
exercised the skill that would be exercised by most other doctors in his position.

Respondent had to tailor his treatment to what was available to his patients, especially

if no pain management specialists were available for referrals. Respondent's patients
with chronic pain had longstanding opioid prescriptions. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for opioid prescribing do not establish the standard
of care, but respondent attempted to contribute to his patients’ sense of well-being by
applying alternative medicine techniques, with medications that may not be universally
accepted but have some support in the literature. Patients 1 and 2 were already taking
opioids. The use of vitamins, safer when a doctor administers them than when a
patient obtains them at a drugstore, as well as Myers’ cocktail infusions and hCG, is a
reasonable “therapeutic trial” to try to improve a patient's sense of wellbeing, lessen
anxiety, and perhaps reduce dependence on opioids. The potential benefits of this
“therapeutic trial” greatly outweighed the risks. If the patient does not make progress
toward treatment goals, the therapeutic trial may be discontinued.

13, _ Dr. Katz's testimony regarding the general standard of care is given
greater weight than that of Dr. Wilcosky's. Dr. Wilcosky’s suggestion that the standard
of care governing the practice of primary care medicine for San Pedro's harbor

* workers differs from the standard of care for the patients Dr. Katz serves reflects
questionable judgment. Though the relative prevalence of certain health conditions
varies depending on the location, employment, and socioeconomic status of different
patient populations, every patient in California is entitled to receive the same level of
care whether they see a doctor in San Pedro, Santa Monica, or Pacific Palisades. As for
the standard of care with respect to treating chronic pain, Dr. Katz is persuasive
regarding assessment, treatment modalities, reevaluation, and referral. Dr. Wilcosky is
persuasive that at least some of the “therapeutic trials," though not supported by
peer-reviewed studies and with possibly no greater medical value than placebos,

presented potential benefits that appeared to outweigh their risks.
PATIENT 1

14. Respondent treated Patient 1 at his San Pedro clinic from October 3,
2015, to January 13, 2017, for various conditions including a history of chronic back
pain, knee pain, shoulder pain, ankle pain, insomnia, and anxiety. Respondent had
previously treated Patient 1 at the Long Beach clinic, continuing to refill and prescribe
narcotics for her, a medication regime that had started years before while she was
treated by another physician.

15. _ Dr. Katz opined, in his expert report dated December 7, 2019, as modified
in his supplemental report dated July 18, 2021, and in his testimony at hearing, that
respondent engaged in the following simple departures from the standard of care in
treating Patient 1: overprescribing Toradol injections and failing to prescribe oral
analgesics, including NSAID's; continuing to prescribe narcotic medication without
evaluations and, if appropriate, tapering, and despite telling the patient an MRI would
be required prior to additional narcotics refills; prescribing selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) but keeping conflicting records about which SSRI was
administered, and prescribing hCG, a hormone, to treat Patient 1’s anxiety, without
explanation; treating Patient 1 with vitamin B12 with no clear medical indication; and
prescribing ceftriaxone, azithromycin, and Tussionex without documentation of

examination and diagnosis.

16. Or. Katz concluded that medical records revealed respondent's lack of
knowledge in his diagnosis and treatment of Patient 1's menstrual irregularities; in
diagnosing her with a vitamin B12 deficiency and treating her with regular vitamin B12
injections and an intravenous infusion of “Myers' cocktail” (a combination of vitamins

and minerals); and in diagnosing and treating her for vitamin D deficiency.

17. Dr. Katz opined that respondent did not depart from the standard of care
in prescribing benzodiazepines to Patient 1, in performing a history and physical
examination of her, in monitoring her response to prescription medications, in

documenting her medical record, or in arriving at appropriate diagnoses,

Excessive Prescribing of Toradol (First and Second Causes
for Discipline)

18. With respect to Toradol, Dr. Katz testified that respondent's repeatedly
administering Toradol injections, and his failure to explore the use of oral analgesics
and oral NSAIDs, was a simple departure from the standard of care. Toradol is to be
used, he testified, for short-term treatment of acute pain, not to exceed five days, but
respondent administered it on many of Patient 1's frequent visits. Complainant
established that administering Toradol injections to both patients beyond the five-day
limit was excessive. Respondent concedes that Patient 1 received at least 30 Toradol
injections and Patient 2 received at least 31 injections, which shows that respondent
exceeded the five-day limit called for under the standard of care and supported by the
Toradol FDA package insert.

19. Dr. Wilcosky, in his expert report and his testimony, opined that
respondent did not depart from the standard of care in treating Patient 1's pain with
too many Toradol injections rather than prescribing oral analgesics. He wrote that
injecting intramuscular Torado! on an episodic basis for acute pain or acute
exacerbations of chronic pain is commonly employed, within the standard of care, and
unlikely to result in harm. He wrote that Dr, Katz’s opinion that injections of Toradol

should not be used more than five days does not apply except when it is being used
around the clock.

20. _ The FDA insert for Toradol, which respondent introduced into evidence,
does not substantiate Dr. Wilcosky’s opinion. It advises that Toradol by injection may
be used as a single or multiple dose on a regular or ‘prn’ schedule for the
management of moderately severe, acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid
level, usually in @ postoperative setting. .. . Patients should be switched to alternative
analgesics as soon as possible, but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5
days.” (Ex. P5, p. B96.) The insert provides instructions for single administration use,
which may be followed by oral Toradol (but not for more than five days), as well as for
multiple-dose injection treatments with a maximum daily dose. (Jd. at pp. B87, 896.)

Repeated Negligent Prescription of Opioids (Second Cause
for Discipline)

21. With respect to respondent's continued prescribing of narcotics to
Patient 1, Dr. Katz found that respondent regularly refilled Patient 1's narcotics
prescriptions without monitoring and documenting her response to treatment, without
feevaluating the effectiveness of her treatment, without prescribing NSAID's instead of
chronic opioids, without obtaining imaging studies, and without attempting to taper

her narcotics dosage.

22. Dr. Katz opined that failing to attempt to taper the dose of or wean the
patient off narcotics, “if appropriate," is a failure to meet the standard of care. Dr. Katz
stated that "[t]he standard of care requires that a physician prescribe narcotic pain
medication to alleviate the patient's pain and suffering . ... The lowest dose possible is
to be prescribed to control the patient's pain, and alternative methods of alleviating
the patient's pain should be explored. If a patient's treatment regimen is stable, then
the patient should be seen regularly to reevaluate the effectiveness of the treatment

and attempts should be made to taper the medications if appropriate.” (Ex. 25, p.
1073.) Respondent failed to monitor Patient 1’s response to treatment. Dr. Katz
opined that "[t]here was documentation of general symptoms at each visit, but no
specific documentation of response to treatment," such as a description of their

functional activities and status of their functional activities. (Ex. 25, A1072.)

23. _ Respondent also noted on October 3, 2015, that Patient 1 needed an
MRI, and told her on November 15 that the MRI would be required prior to his
authorizing additional Norco refills. Nevertheless, respondent continued to prescribe
Norco refills through the end of the year, over the course of six more visits, despite
Patient 1's failure to obtain an MRI. Respondent did not note in the medical records

the reason for ignoring his own imposed precondition of an MRI for further Norco.
refills.

24, Dr. Wilcosky opined that respondent did not depart from the standard of
care in treating Patient 1's pain with narcotics. Respondent was familiar with Patient 1's
narcotics prescription history, having treated her at the Long Beach Clinic prior to
seeing her at his San Pedro Clinic in October 2015. Dr. Wilcosky opined that Patient 1's
“description of her pain and her physical examination provided a reasonable basis to
continue an apparently successful treatment regimen prescribed by another doctor."
(Ex. P, p. B48.) Dr. Wilcosky criticized CDC guidelines requiring a dose reduction or
discontinuation of opioids, while approving a modification to those guidelines that
“urge an examination of the clinical circumstances before adjusting well established
dosing regimens.” (/bidl) Dr. Wilcosky excused respondent's continued opioid
prescriptions despite the absence of an MRI because of customary delays that were “a
function of insurance approval, capacity of radiographic facilities, and patient
logistics.” (Zoid) He wrote that “[clontrary to the opinion of (Dr. Katz}, treatment of
pain is not predicated on the presence of a correlative imaging study." (Jbid))

25, _ Dr. Katz’s opinion on the issue of Patient 1's narcotics treatment is more
Persuasive than Dr. Wilcosky’s. The medical records for Patient 1 (as well as for Patient
2; see Factual Findings 43, 45-47) do not reflect that respondent diagnosed her with,
or treated her for a condition that caused, intractable pain. Respondent testified that
he allegedly reduced Patient 1's and Patient 2's MME. But he did not document Patient
1's response to his treatment with continued opioid prescriptions and Toradol
injections, or establish or document that he was able to decrease the morphine micro-
equivalents (MME) of medication she was prescribed, Having assumed responsibility
for treating his patients pain, respondent was responsible for addressing their opioid
dependency, attempting to reduce that dependency, and documenting whether or not
a reduction in dependency was possible. Though Patient 1 testified her MME
decreased under respondent's care, her documented condition remained the same

throughout her course of treatment and respondent continued to administer Toradol
injections to her for pain.

26. _ Dr. Katz also did not opine that pain treatment is predicated on imaging
studies, but that respondent, having instructed Patient 1 he would not prescribe
additional Norco until she obtained an MRI, should have at least documented the
reasons for his change of mind. The reasons for a delay in Patient 1's obtaining an MRI

are not relevant to this finding.

Treating Anxiety and Depression with SSRI and Regular
hCG Injections

27. _ Dr. Katz concluded that respondent's prescribing SSRI and hCG to treat
Patient 1's anxiety and improve her sense of well-being lacked a documented basis

conforming to the standard of care. He found that respondent prescribed SSRI’s but

kept conflicting records about them, and prescribed hCG, a hormone, to treat Patient

1's anxiety, without medical indication or explanation.

28. Dr. Wilcosky testified there is no applicable standard of care for the use
of hCG. In support of using SSRI and hCG as alternatives to narcotics, he wrote “[tJhere
is anecdotal evidence" that reducing anxiety might lessen the patient's experience of
pain, because anxiety can be a pain amplifier. Dr. Wilcosky testified the benefits
currently appear to outweigh the risks but, “[a]s with many off label treatments, strict
Protocols have not been established and will await further study.” (Ex. P, p. B49.)

29. Dr. Katz is more persuasive about a standard of care for the use of hCG
and documentation of Patient 1’s SSRI's. Dr. Wilcosky’s opinion that respondent
appropriately used hCG to treat her anxiety and depression to the extent that they act
as pain amplifiers remains unsupported by the medical records as well as the medical
literature. The patient was already receiving Xanax, Toradol injections, narcotics, and
SSRIs. Prescribing hCG to improve a patient's energy levels and sense of well-being is

not a medical indication for hCG or within the standard of care.
Vitamin B12 Injections

30. _ Dr. Katz found that respondent departed from the standard of care by
treating Patient 1 with vitamin 812 injections with no clear indication, and with
intravenous infusions of Myers’ cocktail. According to the medical records, Patient 1
did not have a vitamin B12 deficiency warranting injections of vitamin 812, and any
alleged benefit that Patient 1 claimed to have received was, according to Dr. Katz, a
placebo effect. The medical records do not reflect that Patient 1 showed signs of
immunosuppression, Dr. Katz testified, and the data does not, in any case, support the

contention that vitamin B12 reinforces a healthy immunity system.

31. The standard of care required respondent to identify the cause of Patient
1's fatigue, malaise, and insomnia and treat her underlying symptoms. Prescribing
vitamin B12 injections to improve a patient's sense of well-being is not medically
indicated. No double-blind randomized studies show any benefit of the Myers’
cocktail. The standard of care to treat fatigue, malaise, anxiety, and insomnia is to

~ review prescribed substances the’ patient is taking, the patient's sleep patterns and
habits, and see whether any should be altered to treat the underlying symptoms,
Patient 1 was'taking a high-dose tranquilizer, the benzodiazepine Xanax, three times
per day, and a narcotic, So the patient's experience of sleepiriess and malaise was not
surprising. Respondent should have tried to taper those medications, not try the
unproven Myers’ cocktail injections, which have no benefits but do have risks, such as
infection and bleeding, and for which the patient must pay. The standard of care for 2

family physician is to practice evidence-based medicine.

32. Dr. Wilcosky disagreed, testifying that the use of vitamin B12 injections
and intravenous infusions of Myers’ cocktail even where there is no deficiency is
“relatively widespread.” As with many alternative therapies, randomized controlled
studies have not been done, and doctors may rely on anecdotal evidence of

improvements in patients’ sense of well-being.

33. While Dr, Katz is more persuasive about the existence of a standard of
care requiring application of evidence-based medicine and for the use of vitamin B12
injections absent medical indication and the use of Myers’ cocktail infusions, the
likelihood of harm to patients resulting from respondent's use of these substances

appears to have been minimal.

Documenting Examination and Diagnosis Warranting
Treatment with Ceftriaxone, Azithromycin, and Tussionex

34, _ Dr. Katz found that respondent administered and prescribed a
ceftriaxone (Rocephin) injection and azithromycin (Zithromax Z-Pak) to Patient 1
without documenting a proper examination or diagnosis of an alleged bacterial
infection to support the need for that treatment. There was.no documented physical
examination of the head and neck or respiratory system, and no documentation of
fever. There was no documentation in the medical record that respondent prescribed
Tussionex to prevent Patient 1 from suffering opioid withdrawal, which she could not
take in pill form because of a swollen throat. Opioid medications such as hydrocodone,
morphine, and Dilaudid are available in liquid form. Although Dr. Katz opined
respondent departed from the standard of care based on the documentation in the
medical records, complainant alleged that respondent's failures to document his

decisions to administer ceftriaxone and azithromycin reflected poor record-keeping.

35. _ Dr. Wilcosky did not opine on these issues, Respondent testified that
Patient 1 complained about a three-day cough, yellow sputum, difficulty swallowing,
fever, body aches, and fatigue and malaise, as well as chronic pain. Respondent
examined the patient's back and administered an antibiotic, cephtriaxone, by
intramuscular injection because Patient 1 was having difficulty swallowing. He gave
Patient 1 a Z-pack for her cough, but told her not to take it without consulting further
with respondent. Respondent did not want to abruptly discontinue the patient's
narcotics; because of her sore throat, she could not take her Norco pills, and Tussionex

contains a narcotic, so it was a safe substitute.

36. — Given the absence in the medical records of support for respondent's
treatment, and the availability of liquid opioid medications, Dr. Katz's opinion is
persuasive,

Incompetence in Diagnosing and Treating Patient 1's
Menstrual Irregularities and Vitamins B12 and D
Deficiencies

37. _ Dr. Katz found, concerning respondent's diagnosis and treatment for
Patient 1's menstrual irregularities, vitamin B12 deficiency, and vitamin D deficiency,
that none of respondent's explanations, provided through his testimony and that of
Patient 1, are documented in the medical record. Respondent prescribed
progesterone, vitamins 812 and D, and Myer's cocktail, as documented in the medical
record, without documenting his medical rationale, thereby constituting a departure
from the standard of care.

38, Dr. Wilcosky wrote that use of vitamin B12 injections and Myers’ cocktail
to improve a patient's sense of well-being and try to reduce opioid dependency in
absence of a vitamin evidence of deficiency is widespread. Respondent administered
vitamin B12 not for a B12 deficiency, but as a therapeutic trial to see whether there
could be some benefit. The same rationale applies to Myers’ cocktail. The potential for

tisk is low,

39. Again, Dr. Katz is more persuasive about the existence of a standard of
care requiring the application of evidence-based medicine, but the likelihood of harm

to patients resulting from respondent's treatment appears to have been minimal.

Inadequate Recordkeeping for Treating Anxiety and for
Prescribing Ceftriaxone, Azithromycin, and Tussionex

40. _ Dr. Katz found that respondent failed to properly record the medications
he prescribed to treat Patient 1’s anxiety and failed to document a proper examination
and diagnosis to support his prescription of ceftriaxone, azithromycin, and Tussionex
(see Factual Findings 34-36, ante).

41. Dr. Katz's opinion is persuasive.

PATIENT 2

42, _ Respondent treated Patient 2 at his San Pedro clinic from February 2016
to September 2018 for various conditions including fatigue and back and shoulder
pain, for which Patient 2 took oxycodone, Soma, and promethazine as prescribed by a

previous physician.

43. Dr. Katz opined that respondent engaged in the following simple
departures from the standard of care in treating Patient 2: overprescribing Toradol, 60
mg, to treat pain without monitoring for potential side effects, and prescribing
Phenergan with codeine in the quantities and for the length of time prescribed;
treating with vitamin B12 injections with no clear indication; treating with testosterone
replacement without indication, adequate evaluation or monitoring; using Lipoden
without support for the proposition that its contents aid in weight loss or speed up
metabolism, and without any record the patient was informed of risks and benefits;
and using hCG without sufficient documentation of physical examination and .

laboratory studies to make a diagnosis of testosterone deficiency.

44, Dr. Katz opined that respondent did not depart from the standard of care
in treating Patient 2’s pain; in performing a history and physical examination; in
documenting the patient's response to prescription medication; and in documenting

treatment of Patient 2.

45. Dr. Wilcosky’s opinions, or respondent's testimony, with respect to each

alleged departure are addressed below.
Toradol and Promethazine (Phenergan)

46. _ Dr. Katz found a simple departure from the standard of care in
tespondent's prescription of Toradol without monitoring for side effects, and of
Phenergan with codeine in the quantity and for the length of time that the
prescriptions were issued. Dr. Katz's opinion regarding Toradol for Patient 2 is based
on the same concerns as for Patient 1. (See Factual Findings 15, 18-20.) His opinion
regarding Phenergan centers on its codeine content, given that Patient 2 was already
on chronic narcotic analgesics and Oxycodone. Respondent's claim that he was
treating Patient 2 for chronic bronchitis, which was exacerbated by working as a
longshoreman in the harbor at night, is unsupported by documentation in the medical

records for a significant portion of the time period covered by the prescriptions.

47. Dr, Wileosky concluded that respondent did not depart from the
standard of care in prescribing Toradol injections for Patient 2's pain and failing to
monitor for potential side effects, for the same reasons that applied to Patient 1. (See
Factual Findings 15, 18-20.) Dr. Wilcosky determined that respondent appropriately
tailored a pain management regimen to Patient 2's needs, and his prescriptions and

diagnostic and monitoring efforts, were within the standard of care. He also wrote that

there is a shortage of pain specialists, shifting the burden of pain care to primary care
Providers. He lauded respondent's multimodal approach to pain management.

48. As with Patient 1, Dr. Katz’s opinion as to the overuse of Toradol and

Phenergan without sufficient supporting documentation is persuasive.

Vitamin B12

49. Dr. Katz found that respondent never checked Patient 2's vitamin B12
levels and never found or documented a deficiency. He opined that vitamin B12

injections without clear indication is a simple departure from the standard of care,

50. Dr. Wilcosky testified that respondent was not administering vitamin B12
to correct a deficiency, but as a therapeutic trial to see whether there could be some
benefit. Dr. Katz's view is more traditional, but vitamin B12 deficiency is rare. Most

injectable vitamin B12 is given to enhance a patient's sense of well-being. Dr. Wilcosky
pointed to some prelir

inary studies discussing a possible anti-depressive effect of
vitamin B12 injections and encouraging further research.

51. _ Dr. Katz's position as to the current standard of care is persuasive,
though further research may eventually reveal some anti-depressive benefit to vitamin

B12 injections. Though there was a simple departure, the risks generally inherent with
injections may be fairly minor.

Testosterone

52. Dr. Katz found that respondent administered testosterone without proper
medical indication, evaluation, or monitoring. Respondent did not document a
physical examination of Patient 2's testes or prostate. Because testosterone therapy is

contraindicated in the presence of prostate cancer, the standard of care requires
documenting a normal prostate exam prior to testosterone therapy. According to Dr.
Katz, respondent administered a single testosterone lab test during the afternoon,
when testosterone levels are generally low, rather than in the morning, as is
Customary. Testing for testosterone replacement therapy does not vary based on the
physical location of a patient or the patient's work schedule. Respondent testified a
second test was done in the morning, and the testosterone was also low. But by that
time, respondent had already begun administering testosterone replacement therapy,
which suppresses the body's ability to make endogenous testosterone. Respondent
did not monitor the patient's response to the therapy.

53. Respondent testified that people on chronic opioids, such as Patient 2,
may have a suppressed endocrine system and low testosterone. Patient 2 presented
with decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, decreased concentration, and anxiety.
Although some physicians believe a morning testosterone test yields more accurate
results than an afternoon test, port workers work an inconsistent schedule and have
trouble being available for a morning test. The lab was important, but also important
was respondent's clinical impressions of what Patient 2 was experiencing. Respondent
ordered testosterone to help the patient feel better, and also ordered a second lab,
the results of which were again low. Patient 2 told respondent he gradually felt better
with the treatment, with improving libido and erectile dysfunction, ability to

concentrate, and a sense of wellbeing. Dr. Wilcosky’s report did not address this issue.

54, Dr. Katz’s opinion regarding the standard of care, and respondent's
simple departure by his failure to evaluate, monitor, or document his testosterone

treatment of Patient 2 is persuasive.

Lipoden and hCG

55. _ Respondent testified that Lipoden injections, containing amino acids and
vitamins, are used to help increase a patient's metabolism and energy levels, possibly
leading the patient to exercise more and lose weight. Patient 2 wanted to lose weight,

So respondent administered Lipoden and hCG injections to give him energy.

56. _ Dr. Katz found a simple departure from the standard of care in
respondent's use of Lipoden and hCG. Patient 2's laboratory studies did not
demonstrate @ growth hormone deficiency, which might have justified the use of hCG.
‘The patient was overweight, but there was no documented discussion of diet and
other modalities for weight management, and no documented medical justification of

a need for the Lipoden injections. Dr. Wilcosky did not address this issue in his report.
57. Dr. Katz’s opinion is persuasive.

Other Evidence

58. Respondent offered eight character-reference letters.

59. _ Dr. Zakaria Ahmad, respondent's younger brother, a licensed physician in
California and professional colleague of respondent's for the past three years, wrote in
an August 12, 2021, letter that respondent is skilled, knowledgeable, and
compassionate, caring toward employees and patients, and driven to provide the best
possible health care.

60. Jessica Mokdad, respondent's office manager, wrote in an August 17,
2021, letter that she has worked for him for six years, that he is hard-working,
dedicated, honest, compassionate, and gentle, and cares about his patients.

61. Respondent informed both Dr. Zakaria Ahmad and Ms. Mokdad of this

proceeding. He felt too awkward to tell the other character references, who include
Patient 1;

nother office manager, Jessica Guerrero; Lynsey Ly, the clinic's accountant;
Mark Newman, D.C, a chiropractor from whom respondent rented office space;
Osman Dandan, a physician assistant who worked at the San Pedro clinic for a few
months; and Rostam Khoshsar, M.D,, an anesthesiologist and pain management
specialist to whom respondent used to refer patients, They wrote of respondent's

moral character, dedication, integrity, concern with patient safety, professionalism,
knowledge, and intelligence.

62, Respondent completed a Professional Boundaries, Inc. (PBI) medical
record keeping course through the University of California, Irvine, in July 2021, and a

PBI prescribing course focused on opioids, pain management, and addiction in August
2021,

LEGAL CONCLUSIONS

Applicable Authority

1, The Board is responsible for enforcing the disciplinary provisions of the
Medical Practice Act. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2004, subd. (a)). The Board’s highest priority
is to protect the public. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2229.) A certificated practitioner who
violates the Medical Practice Act may have his or her certificate revoked or suspended
or placed on probation, be publicly reprimanded, or have “other action taken in

relation to discipline” as the Board deems proper. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2227.) .

2 The Board may discipline a practitioner's certificate for unprofessional

conduct, which includes, among other things, any violation of the Medical Practice Act,
gross negligence, repeated negligent acts, incompetence, and failure to maintain
adequate and accurate records of services provided to patients. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§
2234, subds. (a)-(c), 2261, 2266.) It is a violation of the Medical Practice Act to
excessively prescribe controlled substances or to prescribe them without an
appropriate prior examination and a medical indication. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 725,
2241.5, subds. (c) & (d), 2242; see Health & Saf. Code, § 11153.)

3. The absence of any harm resulting from treatment does not negate
whether a violation of the Medical Practice Act has occurred. (Shea v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1978) 81 Cal App.3d 564, 578-579, citing Cooper v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1975) 49 Cal App.3d 931, 949-950.)

4, “IA] physician is required to possess and exercise, in both diagnosis and
treatment, that reasonable degree of knowledge and skill which is ordinarily possessed
and exercised by other members of his profession in similar circumstances.” (Landeros
v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal. 3d 399, 408.) "The courts require only that physicians and
surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable degree of skill,
knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical
profession under similar circumstances." (Bardessono v. Michels (1970) 3 Cal.3d 780,
788.)

5. The rigorous educational, training, and testing requirements for
obtaining a physician's license justify imposing on complainant a burden of proof of
clear and convincing evidence. (Evid. Code, § 115; see Ettinger v. Board of Medical
Quality Assurance (1982) 135 CalApp.3d 853, 856; Imports Performance v. Department
of Consumer Affairs, Bureau of Automotive Repair (2011) 201 Cal App.4th 911.)

Causes for Discipline

6. Cause exists to discipline respondent's certificate under Business and
Professions Code sections 725, subdivision (a), in that respondent prescribed excessive
amounts of controlled substances to Patients 1 and 2, as set forth in Factual Findings
14, 15, 18 through 26, and 42 through 47.

Le Cause exists to discipline respondent's certificate under Business and
Professions Code section 2234, subdivision (c), in that respondent committed repeated

negligent acts in the treatment of Patients 1 and 2, as set forth in Factual Findings 14
through 36 and 42 through 56.

8. Cause exists to discipline respondent's certificate under Business and
Professions Code section 2234, subdivision (d), in that respondent demonstrated
incompetence, based upon his lack of knowledge, in treating Patient 1, as set forth in

"Factual Findings 37 through 39,

9. Cause exists to discipline respondent's certificate under Business and
Professions Code section 2266, in that he failed to maintain adequate and accurate

medical records for Patient 1, as set forth in Factual Findings 40 and 41.

10. Cause exists to suspend or revoke respondent's license under Business
and Professions Code section 2234, in that respondent engaged in unprofessional

conduct in his care and treatment of Patients 1 and 2, as forth in Factual Findings 14
through 56.

aM


Appropriate Discipline

11. _ In addition to prioritizing public protection, Business and Professions
Code section 2229 specifies that, “to the extent not inconsistent with public protection,
disciplinary actions shall be calculated to aid in the rehabilitation of licensees, (Italics
added.) To implement the mandates of section 2229, the Board has adopted the
Manual of Model Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines (guidelines), 12th
Edition, 2016." (Guidelines, p. 2.)

12. For excessive prescribing, repeated negligent acts, incompetence, failure
to maintain adequate records, and general unprofessional conduct, under Business
and Professions Code sections 725, 2234, subdivisions (c) and (d), 2266, and 2234,
respectively, the Guidelines recommend a minimum penalty of stayed revocation and
five years’ probation. The Guidelines may be departed from based on mitigating
evidence and rehal

ilitation factors including early acceptance of responsibility and
demonstrated willingness to undertake Board-ordered rehabilitation.

13. _ Itwas established by clear and convincing evidence that respondent
engaged in excessive prescribing, repeated negligent acts, incompetence, failure to
maintain adequate records, and general unprofessional conduct. It was established by
clear and convincing evidence that some of the care respondent provided to each of
Patients 1 and 2 constituted repeated simple departures from the standard of care.
And respondent failed in numerous instances with respect to Patient 1 to maintain
adequate records. (See Factual Findings 14 through 57.) These failures demonstrate
that respondent repeatedly acted in violation of the Medical Practice Act and of

statutory and regulatory provisions governing the professional practice of medicine.

14, The purpose of a disciplinary action such as this is to protect the public,
and not to punish the licensee. (Camacho v, Youde (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 161, 164;
Small v. Smith (1971) 16 Cal.App.3d 450, 457.) Accordingly, the Order that follows is

both necessary and sufficient for the protection of the public.

15. On this record, and in view of all the evidence, the safety of the public
will be protected if respondent is placed on five years’ probation with appropriate
terms and conditions.

ORDER

Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. C 127870, issued to respondent Ali
Ahmad, M.D., is revoked in consequence of the determination of the first, second,
third, fourth, and fifth causes for discipline, separately and for all of them. The

revocation is stayed, however, and respondent is placed on probation for five years on

the following terms and conditions:
1. Notification

Within seven days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shall
provide a true copy of this Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the Chief
Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to
respondent, at any other facility where respondent engages in the practice of
medicine, including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies,
and to the Chief Executive Officer at every insurance carrier that extends malpractice
insurance coverage to respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to.

the Board or its designee within 15 calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any changes in hospitals, other facilities, or
insurance carrier,

2. Supervision of Physician Assistants and Advanced Practice Nurses

During probation, respondent is prohibited from supervising physician
assistants and advanced practice nurses.

3. Obey All Laws

Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules governing the

practice of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court ordered

criminal probation, payments, and other orders.

4. Quarterly Declarations

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations under penalty of perjury on
forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has been compliance with all the
conditions of probation.

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days
after the end of the preceding quarter.

5. General Probation Requirements

Compliance with Probation Unit: Respondent shall comply with the Board's
probation unit.

Address Changes: Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of
respondent's business and residence addresses, email address (if available), and

telephone number. Changes of such addresses shall be immediately communicated in

writing to the Board or its designee. Under no circumstances shall a post office box

serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business and Professions Code
section 2021, subdivision (b).

Place of Practice: Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in
respondent's or patient's place of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled

nursing facility or other similar licensed facility.

License Renewal: Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California

physician's and surgeon's license.

Travel or Residence Outside California: Respondent shall immediately inform
the Board or its designee, in writing, of travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of
California which lasts, or is contemplated to last, more than 30 calendar days.

In the event respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to
practice, respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days

prior to the dates of departure and return.
6. Interview with the Board or its Designee

Respondent shall be available in person upon request for interviews either at
respondent's place of business or at the probation unit office, with or without prior

notice throughout the term of probation.
7. Non-practice While on Probation

Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing within 15 calendar
days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than 30 calendar days and within 15

calendar days of respondent's return to practice. Non-practice is defined as any period

of time respondent is not practicing medicine as defined in Business and Professions
Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at least 40 hours in a calendar month in direct
Patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board, If
respondent resides in California and is considered to be in non-practice, respondent
shall comply with all terms and conditions of probation. All time spent in an intensive
training program which has been approved by the Board or its designee shall not be
considered non-practice and does not relieve respondent from complying with all the
terms and conditions of probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United
States or Federal jurisdiction while on probation with the medical licensing authority of
‘that state or jurisdiction shall not be considered non-practice. A Board-ordered

suspension of practice shall not be considered as a period of non-practice.

In the event respondent's period of non-practice while on probation exceeds 18
calendar months, respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State
Medical Board's Special Purpose Examination, or, at the Board's discretion, a clinical
competence assessment program that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current
version of the Board's “Manual of Model Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary

Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

Respondent's period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two

years,

Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term.

Periods of non-practice for a respondent residing outside of California, will
relieve respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and

conditions with the exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions

of probation: Obey All Laws; General Probation Requirements; and Quarterly
Declarations.

8. Completion of Probation

Respondent shall comply with all financial obligations (e.g,, restitution,
probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the completion of probation.
Upon successful completion of probation, respondent's certificate shall be fully
restored,

9. Violation of Probation

Failure to fully comply with any term or condition of probation is a violation of
probation. If respondent violates probation in any respect, the Board, after giving
respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke probation and carry
out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, or Petition to Revoke
Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against respondent during
probation, the Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the

period of probation shall be extended until the matter is final,
10. License Surrender

Following the effective date of this Decision, if respondent ceases practicing due
to retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy the terms and
conditions of probation, respondent may request to surrender his license. The Board
reserves the right to evaluate respondent's request and to exercise its discretion in
determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed
appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the

surrender, respondent shall within 15 calendar days deliver respondent's wallet and

wall certificate to the Board or its designee and respondent shall no longer practice
medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject to the terms and conditions of
Probation. If respondent re-applies for a medical license, the application shall be

treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

11. Probation Monitoring Costs

Respondent shalll pay the costs associated with probation monitoring each and
every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which may be adjusted on an
annual basis, Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of California and

delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 of each calendar year.

12. Education Course

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, and on an annual
basis thereafter, respondent shall submit to the Board or its designee for its prior
approval educational program(s) or course(s) which shall not be less than 40 hours per
year, for each year of probation. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be
aimed at correcting any areas of deficient practice or knowledge and shall be Category
I certified. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be at respondent's expense
and shall be in addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for
renewal of licensure, Following the completion of each course, the Board or its
designee may administer an examination to test respondent's knowledge of the
course. Respondent shall provide proof of attendance for 65 hours of CME of which 40

hours were in satisfaction of this condition.
uv
uM

13. Prescribing Practices Course

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shall
enroll in a course in prescribing practices approved in advance by the Board or its
designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider with any
information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of
the course not later than six (6) months after respondent's initial enrollment.
Respondent shall successfully complete any other component of the course within one
(1) year of enrollment. The prescribing practices course shall be at respondent's
expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME)

requirements for renewal of licensure.

A prescribing practices course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges
in the Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole
discretion of the Board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this
condition if the course would have been approved by the Board or its designee had
the course been taken after the effective date of this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or
its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course,

or not later than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is
later.

14. Medical Record Keeping Course

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shall
enroll in a course in medical record keeping approved in advance by the Board or its
designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider with any

information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of
the course not later than six months after respondent's initial enrollment. Respondent
shall successfully complete any other component of the course within one year of
enrollment. The medical record keeping course shall be at respondent's expense and
shall be in addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for
renewal of licensure.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the
charges in the Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the
sole discretion of the Board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this
condition if the course would have been approved by the Board or its designee had

the course been taken after the effective date of this Decision,

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or
its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course,

or not later than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is
later,

15. Clinical Competence Assessment

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shall
enroll in a clinical competence assessment program approved in advance by the Board
or its designee. Respondent shall successfully complete the program not later than six
months after respondent's initial enrollment unless the Board or its designee agrees in
writing to an extension of that time.

The program shall consist of a comprehensive assessment of respondent's
physical and mental health and the six general domains of clinical competence as
defined by the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education and American
Board of Medical Specialties pertaining to respondent's current or intended area of
practice. The program shall take into account data obtained from the pre-assessment,
self-report forms and interview, and the Decision(s), Accusation(s), and any other
information that the Board or its designee deems relevant. The program shall require
respondent's on-site participation for a minimum of 3 and no more than 5 days as
determined by the program for the assessment and clinical education evaluation.
Respondent shall pay all expenses associated with the clinical competence assessment

program.

At the end of the evaluation, the program will submit a report to the Board or
its designee which unequivocally states whether the respondent has demonstrated the
ability to practice safely and independently. Based on respondent's performance on
the clinical competence assessment, the program will advise the Board or its designee
of its recommendation(s) for the scope and length of any additional educational or
clinical training, evaluation or treatment for any medical condition or psychological
condition, or anything else affecting respondent's practice of medicine. Respondent

shall comply with the program's recommendations.

Determination as to whether respondent successfully completed the clinical

competence assessment program is solely within the program's jurisdiction.
u
u

If respondent fails to enroll, participate in, or successfully complete the clinical
competence assessment program within the designated time period, respondent shall
receive a notification from the Board or its designee to cease the practice of medicine
within three calendar days after being so notified. The respondent shall not resume the
Practice of medicine until enrollment or participation in the outstanding portions of
the clinical competence assessment program have been completed. If the respondent
did not successfully complete the clinical competence assessment program, the
respondent shall not resume the practice of medicine until a final decision has been
rendered on the accusation and/or a petition to revoke probation. The cessation of

practice shall not apply to the reduction of the probationary time period.

DATE: 01/05/2022 Tesco Cohen on 1010 TE FAT)
HOWARD W. COHEN
Administrative Law Judge

Office of Administrative Hearings

