Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevads 2952)

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

(75) 688-2559

wow ewn

Sc @

W

at



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-43198-1

Against: FILED
SARA KABSOUN, M.D., JUN 07 2024

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

pies EXAMINERS
By: — ———

SETTLEMENT AGREEMEN”
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Sara Kabsoun, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevi
Ellerton, Esq., of the law firm Hall Prangle & Schoonveld

assisted by her attorney, S. Mi

hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!
A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
‘Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. Her license was originally issued on February 23, 2015 (License No. 15735).

2. On April 10, 2024, in Case No. 24-43198-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1); and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Count Il).
7a

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are nol intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof?

RAL COUNSEL

OFFICE OF THE G!


i
i
af

By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in
NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed, and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter,
and of her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a

formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her:
‘own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the
Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by

regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.

Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.

20f7

[Nevada State Boaed of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(05) 688.2539

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL. COUNSEL

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.c., the matters

with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction, Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Re jon_by Cou: ing, Willing _and_Intelligent ent.
Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter, Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that
may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board,
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

"900 Gateway Drive
‘Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 68.2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Famninert

Respondent is not admitting that the IC's claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit

and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential

subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count J, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of three thousand three hundred
thirty-three dollars and four cents ($3,333.04). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned costs
and expenses by way of an initial payment of five hundred fifty-five dollars fifty-four cents
($555.54) due on or before August 7, 2024, and then five (5) equal payments of five hundred fifty-
five dollars and fifty cents ($555.50) due on or before the seventh day of each month thereafter,
with the final payment duc on or before February 7, 2025. The costs and expenses as well as the
payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

©. Respondent shall pay a fine of three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500).

Respondent shall pay the aforementioned fine by way of an initial payment of five hundred
cighty-three dollars and thirty-eight cents ($583.38) due on or before August 7, 2024, and then
five (5) equal payments of five hundred eighty-three dollars and thirty-three cents ($583.33) due
‘on or before the seventh day of each month thereafter, with the final payment due on or before
February 7, 2025. This fine, as well as the payment plan, arc subject to the Board's acceptance,

adoption and approval of this Agreement.

40f7

"909 Gateway Deve
Reno, Nevada 8952)
(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

awn



d. Respondent shall perform seven (7) hours of Continuing Medical Education
(CME) related to consultations, referrals, and transfers of care, within six (6) months of the
Board's acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement. These seven (7) hours of CME

shall be in addition to the CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of

licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1) and shall be approved by the Board
prior to their completion.

€. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

F. _Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

g- Count II of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from the Board’s

corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.
6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel,

investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of]
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,

committecs, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,

causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein,

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and cond

ns of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. in the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

adjudicating members of the Board.

Sof?

an
a
wigit

ge


E


vcore

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or conducted ex-
parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board meeting where
this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may include, but may not
be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and all information of
every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that Respondent
and/or Counse! for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s
counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and

ising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seck the Board's acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating pancl of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11, Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seck cnforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.
ws

60f7

S$
i

OFFICE OF TUL GE

i

Mes

Nevada State Bd

12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall

be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys” fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms, Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been ae

pled, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Ca id.

¢ Hearing, which will be duly noti

ure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

expenses or fees owed to the Board. is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may.

Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)

result in additional disciplinary action being taken ag

a).

Hurther, Respondent's fatlure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condi

jon of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

h
paren this 4 day of f ay +2024. DATED this_9"_ day of M2 . 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTED OF THE HALL PRANGLE & SCHOONVELD

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL.
EXAMINERS

By. We sonduxS Born ty. {sf S. Marie Elerton, Eq

ALEXANDER J. HINMAN S. MARIE ELLERTON, ESQ
Deputy General Counsel 1140 Town Center Drive, Suite 350
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas. NV 89144

Reno. NV 89521 Vel: (702) 889-6400

Tel: (775) 688-2559 mail: mellerton@hpslaw.com
Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.zov Atiorney Jor Respondem

Jor the Investigative Commintee

parip tis 1 day or_M Gr) 2024.

hy ——
SARA KABSOUN, M.D,

Nevada License No. 15735
Respondent

7of7

IRDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-43198-1)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

i


7th day of June, 2024.
DATED this 7th day of June, 2024.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,

Lele WM Syl

NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.DY, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

