OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2889

Seowmrxaauas

ul
13,

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint

Against: FILED

WHITAKER MICHAEL SMITH, M.D.,
JUL 17 2024

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Case No. 24-51857-1

Respondent.

MEDICAL EXAMINE!
Oye eee
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel and attomey for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Whitaker Michael Smith, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 19408). Respondent was
onginally licensed by the Board on November 14, 2017.

2. On November 3, 2021, the Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners (Tennessee
Board) adopted a Consent Order against Respondent in Case No. 201401172. See Exhibit 1.
This Consent Order issued a reprimand of Respondent's Tennessee medical license and imposed
several conditions, including a provision prohibiting him from prescribing opioids for six (6)
months.

3. The Tennessee Board Consent Order was based on Respondent entering into a

monitoring agreement with the Tennessee Medical Foundation after Respondent's employer noted

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Aury Nagy, M.D., Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel,
and Nicola (Nick) M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.0.G.

lof4

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

uw

a pattem of canceled or missed scheduled workdays, and Respondent writing prescriptions,
including prescriptions for controlled substances, for his two children and a person with whom he
had a prior sexual relationship.

4, Respondent failed to self-report this disciplinary action to the Nevada Board within
thirty (30) days as required under NRS 630.306(1)(k).

OU) 1
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board

5. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limutation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state ... [o]r the surrender of the license or discontinuing the
practice of medicine while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

7. Respondent was disciplined by another state when the Tennessee Board of Medical
Examiners entered its Consent Order, reprimanding Respondent's Tennessee medical license and
requiring Respondent follow several specific conditions, such as a six-month prohibition on the

prescription of oproids. See Exhibit 1.

8 _ By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT

NRS 630.306(1)(K) - Failure to Report Disciplinary Action

9. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

10. NRS 630.306(1)(k) provides that the failure by a licensee to report in writing,
within thirty (30) days, any disciplinary action taken against the licensee by another state is
grounds for initiating disciplmary action or denying licensure.

Mi

2of4

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examers
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(O75) 688-2559

i
13,
a


11. Respondent did not report to the Board in writing within thirty (30) days the
disciplinary action taken by the Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada
Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent,

4, That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

. 7*4,
DATED this } 7" day of July, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: Ve CH

WILLIAM P. SHOGREN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: shogrenw( ard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

30f4

{9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2589

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Aury Nagy, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of |
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of|
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 17th day of July, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: KS ———
AUR’

Chairman of the Investigative Committee

40f4



CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 18th day of July, 2024, I served a file-stamped copy of the foregoing COMPLAINT,

via USPS Certified Mail, postage pre-paid, to the following parties:

WHITAKER MICHAEL SMITH, M.D.
366 Meadowlake Circle
Seymour, TN 37865

9171 9690 0935 0254 6114 62


MERCEDES FUENTES
Legal Assistai
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Tracking No...

DATED this | Na day of July, 2024.

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
STATE OF TENNESSEE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
IN THE MATTER OF: BEFORE THE TENNESSEE,

BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
WHITAKER M. SMITH, M.D.
RESPOND!

KINGSPORT, TN
‘TENNESSFE LICENSE NO. 31792

d
d
) CASE NO.: 201401172
d

CONSENT ORDER

The Division of Health Related Boards of the Tennessee Department of Health (“State”),
by and through the Office of General Counsel, and Respondent, Whitaker Smith, MD
(“Respondent”), by and through counsel, respectfully move the Tennessee Board of Medical
Examuners (“Board”) for approval of this Consent Order affecting Respondent’s medical license
1m the State of Tennessee,

‘The Board 1s responsible for the regulation and supervision of medical doctors licensed to
practice in the State of Tennessee See Tennessee Medical Practice Act, TENN CODE ANN §§ 63-
6-101, et seq_ It is the policy of the Board to require strict compliance with the laws of this State,
and to apply the laws so as to preserve the quality of medical care provided in Tennessee. It 1s the
duty and responsibility of the Board to enforce the Tennessee Medical Practice Act in such a
‘manner as to promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare in every practicable way,
including disciplining medical doctors who violate the provisions of TENN CODE ANN § 63-6-
101, ef seq or the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the Board and recorded in the Official
Compilation Rules and Regulations of the State of Tennessee (“TENN Comp R. & REGS ”)

Respondent, acting through his conservator, by his signature to this Consent Order, waives
the right to a contested case hearing and any and all rights to judicial review im this matter

Respondent agrees that presentation to and consideration of this Consent Order by the Board for
ratification and all matters divulged during that process shall not constitute unfair disclosure such
that the Board or any of its members shall be prejudiced to the extent that requires their
chsqualification from hearing this matter should this Order not be raufied Likewise, all matters,
admissions and statements disclosed or exchanged during the attempted ratification process shall
not be used against the Respondent in any subsequent proceeding unless independently obtained
and entered into evidence or introduced as admissions.

Respondent understands the nature of the charges herein alleged and that if proved at a
hhcaring, such charges and allegations would constitute cause for imposing discipline upon
Respondent's license issued by the Board. Respondent expressly waives all further procedural
steps and expressly waives all rights to seck judictal review of or to challenge or contest the validity
of this Consent Order Respondent understands that by signing this Consent Order, Respondents
allowing the Board to issue its order without further process. Respondent acknowledges that this
1s a formal disciplinary acon and will be reported to the Healthcare Practitioner Data Bank and/
fora similar agency In the event that the Board rejects this Consent Order for any reason, it will

be of no force or effect for either party

‘STIPULATIONS OF FACT

1, Respondent has been at all times pertinent hereto licensed by the Board as a medical doctor,
having been granted license number 31792 on June 28, 1999. Respondent’s medical
license will expire on November 30, 2023.

2. In May of 2014, Respondent's employer, Mountain Regional Family Medicine Group,
required Respondent to obtain an evaluation from the Tennessce Medical Foundation

(TMP) because of a noticeable pattern of cancelling or missing scheduled work days.
In January of 2015, Respondent underwent a comprehensive evaluation with the Center for
Professional Excellence at the request of TMF secondary to a complaint that he was
abusing alcohol,

‘On or about January 27, 2015, Respondent signed his first contract with TMF, Respondent
signed his second contract on March 3, 2017 afier completing treatment at Positive
Sobnety Institute in Chicago. Respondent 1s currently compliant with all of the terms of
his TMF contract, Respondent's contract terminates on March 17, 2022

In addition, to Respondent's use of alcohol, Respondent wrote several prescriptions for
Concerta, a schedule IT controlled substance, for his son, D $ from approximately April
2010 through Apnl 2014 During approximately the same ttme period, Respondent also
wrote prescriptions for non controtted substances for D.S including prescriptions for
antibiotics, although the vast majority of the prescriptions were for Concerta

Respondent maintained a medical record for D.S., although the record does not contain
periodic visits to coincide with the prescriptions wnitten

From approximately March 2010 through June 2014, Respondent wrote several
prescriptions for Concerta, a schedule UI controlled substance, for his daughter $.$ During
approximately the same time penod, Respondent also wrote prescriptions for non-
controlled substances for $.S although the vast majority of the prescnptions were for
Concerta.

Respondent maintained a medical record for SS , although the record does not contain
periodic visits to coincide with the prescriptions written

Respondent had a relationship with T Q outside the office that was sexual m nature prior
to seeing her as a patient Respondent first saw T.Q for dysuria. T.Q also had a history of

arthritis, fibromyalgia, and anxiety.

From approximately August 2013 through February 2014, Respondent wrote TQ.
approximately ten (10) prescriptions for Alprazolam, a schedule IV controlled substance,
and approximately (8) prescriptions for Oxycodone, a scheduled II controlled substance

‘On February 20, 2014, Respondent sent T Q. a patient discharge letter stating that she was

1n wolatuion of her controlled substance agreement

GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINE

Respondent's acts as described in the Supulations of Fact se

n of this Consent Order are

sufficient to establish that grounds for discipline of Respondent’s medical license exist

Specifically, Respondent has violated the following statutes or rules which are part of the

‘Tennessee Medical Practice Act, (TENN. CODE ANN. § 63-6-101, et seg and TENN. COMP. R &

Recs ) for which disciplinary action before and by the Board xs authorized:

12.

13.


Respondent's actions/omissions as articulated in paragraph two (2) through four (4) of the

Stipulations of Fact, supra, constitute violations of TENN. CODE ANN § 63-6-214 (b)(5):
Habitual intoxication or personal misuse of any drugs or the use of intoxicating
liquors, narcotics, controlled substances, controlled substance analogues or other
drugs or stimulants in such manner as to adversely affect the person’s ability to
practice medicine

Respondent's actions/omissions as articulated in paragraph two (2) through ten (10) of the

Stipulations of Fact, supra, constitute violations of TENN. CoDn ANN. § 63-6-214 (b)(1)

‘Unprofessional conduct, dishonorable or unethical conduct.

‘The facts stipulated in paragraphs five (5) through ten (10), supra, constitute a violation of
TENN CODF ANN § 63-6-214(b)(12).

Dispensing, prescribing or otherwise distributing any controlled substance
of any other drug not in the course of professional practice, or not in good
faith to relieve pain and suffermg, or not to cure an ailment, physical
infirmity or disease, or in amounts and/or for durations not medically
necessary, advisable or justified for a diagnosed condition.

15. The facts stipulated in paragraphs five (5) through ten (10), supra, constitute a
violation of TENN ComP R & REGS. 0880-2- 14(7)(a).

Except as provided in subparagraph (b), it shall be a prima facie violation
of TC.A_§ 63-6-214 (b) (1), (4), and (12) for a physician to prescribe or
dispense any drug to any individual, whether in person or by clectronic
‘means or over the Internet or over telephone lines, unless the physician, or
hushher licensed supervisce pursuant to appropnate protocols or medical
orders, has first done and appropriately documented, for the person to whom
‘ prescription 1s to be issued or drugs dispensed, all of the following”

1 Performed an appropriate history and physical examination; and

2 Made a diagnosis based upon the examinations and all diagnostic
and laboratory tests consistent with good medical care; and

3 Formulated therapeutic plan, and discussed it, along with the basis
for it and the risks and benefits of various treatments options, a part
of which might be the prescription or dispensed drug, with the
patient, and

4 Insured availability of the physician or coverage for the patient for
appropriate follow-up care,

16 ‘The facts stipulated in paragraphs five (5) and ten (10), supra, constitute a violation of the
Code of Medical Ethics of the American Medical Association, which consututes a
violation of TENN Comp R. & Regs., Rule 0880-02- 14(8)

Code of Ethics — The Board adopts, as sf fully set out herein and to the extent
that it does not conflict with state law, rules or Board Position Statements,
as its code of medical ethics the “Code of Medical Ethics” published by the

AM.A. Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs as st may, from time to ume,
be amended,

POLICY STATEMENT

‘The Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners takes this action mm order to protect the.
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the State of Tennessee and ensure that the pubhe

confidence in the integrity of the medical profession 1s preserved
v7




ORDER

‘Therefore, the Board ORDERS and Respondent AGREES to the following

‘The Tennessee medical license of Whitaker Smuth, M.D., license number 31792, 1s hereby

REPRIMANDED, effective the date of entry of this Order.

Respondent shall maintain the advocacy of the TMF,

a.

Respondent shall maintam one hundred percent (100%) comphance with all
provisions of the TMF monttoring/advocacy contract, or extension thereto he has
entered with the TME,

During the length of his TMF contract, Respondent shall authorize the TMF to
provide compliance reports to the Board’s Medical Consultant every 3 months
detailing Respondent's comphance with the terms of his TMF contract with the
first report due three months following the effective date of this Order:

Cause the TMF to notify the Board’s Disciplinary Coordinator m writing of any
violation of the TMF contract;

Inmediately notufy the Board's Medical Consultant if at any time Respondent no

longer has the advocacy of TMF

Within ninety (90) days of the entry of this Order, Respondent must provide proof to the

Board's medical consultant that he has notified any physicians, podiatrists, advanced

practice registered nurses, or physicians assistants with whom he collaborates of the

disciphne

Respondent shall not prescribe opioids for at least six (6) months, effective the date of entry

‘of this Order, and until successful completion of the continuing education contained in

paragraph twenty-two (22) of this Order During the time period in which Respondent is

22,


restricted from prescribing opioids, Respondent shall not collaborate with any advanced
practice registered nurses or physician assistants for issuing opioids. The restriction imposed
by this paragraph is only applicable to opioid prescriptions

Respondent shall successfully complete within one hundred and twenty (120) days of entry
of this Order, the equivalent of a two (2) day medical course entitled “Medical Ethics,
Boundaries and Professionalism” offered at The Case Western Reserve University
Continuing Medical Education Prograin at The Case Wester Reserve University School
of Medicine located in Cleveland, Ohio, or an equivalent course approved in advance by
the Board’s medical consultant that he has heretofore not taken Within thirty (30) days
after completion of such course, Respondent shall email proof of compliance with this
Course requirement to: disciplinary.courdinatur@tn.gov. Any Continuing Medical
Education (hereinafter “CME”) course hours earned from attendance and completion of
the course required by this paragraph shall be in addition to the CME hours required to
maintam licensure,
Respondent shall successfully complete within one hundred and twenty (120) days of entry
of this Order, the three (3) day medical course entitled, “Prescribing Controlled Drugs:
Critical Issues and Common Pufalis” offered by Vanderbilt University Medical Center or
an equivalent course approved in advance by the Board's medical consultant. Within
thirty (30) days after completion of such course, Respondent shall email proof of
compliance with this course requirement to: disciplinary.coordinator@tngov. Any
Continuing Medical Education (hereinafter “CME”) course hours earned from attendance
and completion of the course required by this paragraph shall be in addition to the CME
hours required to maintain licensure.
Respondent must pay four (4) “Type A” civil penalties, m the amount of one thousand

dollars ($1,000.00) cach for a total of $4,000 representing a civil penalty for each year that
7,

25.

Respondent prescribed to his children as outlined in the Stipulations of Fact, supra,
Respondent must also pay one (1) “Type A” civil penalty im the amount of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for his relationship with and for prescribing to T.Q as outlined 1n the
Supulations of Fact, supra. The total crvil penalties to be paid are five thousand dollars

($5,000) Any and all civil penalties shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the effecuve

date of tis Consent Order. Any and all civil penalty payments shall be paid by certified

cheek,

's check, or money order payable to the State of ‘Tennessee, which shall

ciplinury Coordinator, The Divi

of Healthy Related

(instream Drive, 2" Floor,

Nashville, Tennessee 37243. A notation shall be placed on said check that it is payable

for the civil penalty of WHITAKER SMITH, M_D., Cometainr No. 2014011721,

Respondent must pay the actual and reasonable costs associated with the investigation and
prosecution of this case, in accordance with TENN. CODE ANN. §§ 63-1-144, 63-6-214 and
‘TENN. Comp, R. & REGS 0880-02- 12. These costs will be established by an Assessment of
Costs prepared and filed by counsel for the Department. The maximum assessment of costs
shall be limited to three thousand dollars ($3000.00). Any and all costs shall be paid in
full within sixty (60) days from the issuance of the Assessment of Costs by submitting a
certified check, cashser’s check, or money order payable to the Stute of Tennessee,

which shall be mailed or delivered to: Disciplinary Coordinator, The Division of Health

Related Boards, Tennessee Department of Health, 665 Mainstream Driye, 2"' Floor,

Nashville, Tenmessee 37243, A notation shall be placed on said check that it is payable
for the costs and civil penalties of WHITAKER SMITH, M.D. CowrLaiyi No.

2014011721.

Failure to comply with any of the terms of this Order shall be considered a Board Order

violation, which may result in further discipline against Respondent.

26. Respondent understands that this 1s a formal disciplinary action and will be reported to the

‘Nauonal Pracutioner Data Bank (N P.D.B.) and/or similar agency.
This CONSENT ORDER was approved by a maority of a quorum of the Tennessee

Board of Medical Examiners at a public meeting of the Board and signed this 3rd day

of November 2021. 5)

Chaurper
‘Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners

APPROVED FOR ENTRY:

| \4 b Wvbue November 02, 2021
‘Whitaker M. Smith DATE
Respondent

Tennessee Medical License No. 31792

November 2 2021
Robert J. Kraemer Jy, (B.P R. No. 006946) DATE

Respondent's attorney

1209 Cedarbend Drive

Mount Juliet, Tennessee 37122-2484

DATE

Nivewbee B, 2rd _

Deputy General Counsel

Office of General Counsel
Tennessee Department of Health
665 Mainstream Drive, 2"! Floor
Nashville, Tennessee 37243
(615) 741-1611
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
‘The undersigned hereby certifies that a true and corvect copy of this document has been served
upon Respondent, through hts attorney, Robert J. Kraemer, Jr 1209 Cedarbend Drive, Mount
Juhet, Tennessee 37122-2484 by delivering same in the United States Mail, Certified Number
NOZI_09S0 coat Qolole 1324 , return receipt requested, United States First Class Postage

Pre-Paid Mail, with sufficient postage thereon to reach its destination and via email at

robkrme@tnkraemer com,

tris Way of

“Pave 202

Fr ce fae ve}

Deputy General Counsel

