‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaints Case Nos. 24-5474-1 & 24-5474-2

Against: FILED

ANDREW JACKSON WELCH, M.D.,

Respondent. SEP 13 2024
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

IEDICAL EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Donald K. White, Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Andrew Jackson Welch, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1, Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on December 2, 1978 (License No. 3713).

2. On July 11, 2024, in Case No. 24-5474-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I) and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records (Count II). On July
15, 2024, in case 24-5474-2, the IC filed a formal Complaint charging Respondent with violating

the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the Complaint alleges one (1) violation of

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(795) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1) and one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to
Maintain Proper Medical Records (Count II). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject
to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with copies of both Complaints, has reviewed and
understands the Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel

concerning the nature and significance of the Complaints.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding the administrative matters,
and of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at his
‘own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the
Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provistons of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Mi

2of7

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gatewav Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(08) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

18,


Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement. then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i e.. the matters

with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions.

Ll Suris

n. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,

a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set

forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and _Intelligent_ Agreement

Respondent acknowledges he is not repre

ned by counsel and

shes to resolve the matters
addressed herein without the assistance of counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by
counsel in this matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration
of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change.
Respondent agrees that he knowingly. willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after
deciding to proceed without the assistance and advice of legal counsel

3. Waiver of Rights In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML. the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaints. and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this

Agreement. without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial revi

iew

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

u
13,
at

acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaints pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a Respondent does not admut to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice, and Count II, one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Proper
Medical Records in Case No. 24-5474-2, but Respondent acknowledges there may be sufficient
evidence presented at a hearing, such that the Board could conclude that Counts I and II could be
proven, and the Respondent agrees that the Board may enter a finding that he violated Counts I
and II as part of this agreement.

b. Respondent will immediately cease the practice of medicine and voluntarily
surrender his license to practice medicine within the State of Nevada.

cc. Respondent agrees that he will not be eligible to reapply for licensure to
practice medicine within the State of Nevada before September 12, 2027.

d. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter, in the amount of five thousand two hundred four
dollars and eighty-four cents ($5,204.84), with those costs and expenses to be immediately stayed,

until such time as Respondent reapplies for licensure, at which time, Respondent is thereby
Ww

4o0f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medica! Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(078) 688-2559

1 }] ordered to pay the aforementioned costs and expenses immediately upon submitting his

w

application for licensure.

3 fe. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as

4 required by law, including. but not limited to. the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand,
G 8. The remaining Complaint in Case No. 24-5474-1, and any other claims

7 |) arising from the Board's correspondin;

westigative file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice

8 6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
9] and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel,
10 ]} investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers. consultants and agents

11 }| are immune from civil liability for any decision or acti

n taken in good faith in response to
12 |] information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2\(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
15 |] Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts. peer reviewers.
14 |] committees, panels, hearing officers. consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
15 |] causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
16 }] unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had. now has, may have or claim to have, against
17 J} any oF all of the persons. government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of.
18 || or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

19 || herein.

20 7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement The IC and counsel for the IC shall

21 || recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
23 || of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
24 I] adjudicating members of the Board.

25 Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
26 || conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board

27 |} meeting where this Agreement is

ussed, and that such contacts and communications may

28 |} include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any

Sof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

19600 Gateway Driv

cea au

and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be
closed and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board's acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaints and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11, Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs,

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by

60f7

7)

the Board, the {C sholl be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license 10 practice
medicine In Nevada pending an Onier to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any Mes, cases,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, isa feilure 10 comply with an order of the Board, which nusy
result in additional disciplinary action being wken against Respondent, NRS 630,3065(2)).
Further, Respondent's falluse {0 remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid us a
condition ofthis Agreement may subject Respondent to cisilcolleetian efforts.

paren this_2/ "Gay of Byol: 2024. READ AND UNDERSTOOD.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE DATED this 2(_ day of | lesassf 200
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMIN}

By:
DO K. WHITE,
General Counsed
9600 Guteway Drive
Reno, NV 89521
Tel: (775) 688-2559
Email:

|; dwhite@medboard.nvsxov
Attorney for the Investigative Committce

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(078) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

a1





ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case Nos. 24-5474-1

and 24-5474-2) was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on

the 13th day of September, 2024.

DATED this 13th day of September, 2024.

By:

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

Leet A Foes
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D/, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

