OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2889

u


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-8686-1

Against: FILED

RALPH MARCUS VENNART, M.D.,
JUN 03 2024

Respondent.

NEVADA STAJE BOARD OF
ME] MINE

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

COMPLAINT

(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Ralph Marcus Vennart, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC's
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 6084). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on July 1, 1990, with a specialty in obstetrics and gynecology.

2. Patient A? was a forty-five (45) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

3. On August 17, 2020, Respondent performed a consultation with Patient A,
regarding sterilization and removal of a retained IUD with non-viable string, Respondent
determined that Patient A’s past medical history was too significant for two Loop Electrical
Excision Procedures (a treatment to remove precancerous cells from the cervix) and that Patient

A’s cervix was flush with the vaginal apex.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
‘Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W Frey, MD, Col. Eric D. Wade,
USAF (Ret.), and Carl N. Williams, Jr., M.D.

2 Patient A's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

1of6

(795) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

4. On November 9, 2020, Patient A had a pre-operative planning visit with
Respondent, where he discussed an operative laparoscopy with bilateral salpingectomy for
elective sterilization, hysteroscopic removal of an intrauterine device (IUD), and a NovaSure
ablation procedure (a procedure that removes the lining of the uterus).

5 On November 19, 2020, Patient A presented to Respondent for the procedures
previously discussed.

6. During the procedure, Respondent attempted to perform the NovaSure ablation
three (3) times without success. During those repeated attempts he created vaginal tears, and
eventually Respondent abandoned the NovaSure ablation, and the vaginal lacerations created by
the single tooth tenaculum were sutured.

7. Respondent did not indicate anywhere in Patient A’s record that he performed an
examination under anesthesia, nor was there any indication that he performed an ultrasound of the
cervix or uterus to establish the appropriate length or measurements of the cervix and uterus prior
to the procedure.

8. On December 1, 2020, Patient A saw Respondent for her first, and what would be
her only post-operative visit. Respondent reportedly told Patient A he had attempted to do the
NovaSure ablation three (3) times but was unsuccessful. This was the first time Patient A became
aware that she had experienced multiple vaginal lacerations during the procedure.

9. Respondent scheduled a follow-up appointment; however, it was not for three (3)
months later, on March 1, 2021.

10. On December 2, 2020, a day after the post-operative visit, Patient A experienced
symptoms consistent with a urinary tract infection (UTI) and called Respondent’s office multiple
times requesting a prescription to treat a UTI. The prescription was delayed three (3) days,
despite staff being aware that the patient was a post-operative patient of Respondent's.

11. On December 5, 2020, Patient A felt an initial “gush” of urine. She contacted
Respondent’s office and provided a urine sample thereafter.

Wt
Wy

20f6

Q

g

ai
9:
Gises
Zed
aeete
Opgze
peg et
ease
ae
og
gz


E

ro}

MW

12. On December 8, 2020, Patient A felt nauseated and was vomiting so she again
contacted Respondent's office staff who told Patient A that she would have to go to the
Emergency Room because no appointments were available.

13. Patient A presented to Aliante Emergency Room and the attending physician
determined that Patient A was suffering from a UTI.

14. Over the next several weeks, Patient A would continue to suffer from multiple
UTI’s and experience worsening urinary incontinence. Additionally, Patient A received multiple
prescriptions from other providers such as Augmentin and Bactrim for a MRSA infection.

15. On January 6, 2021, Patient A experienced increasing incontinence and was no
longer able to work, resulting in her filing for disability with her employer.

16. On January 25, 2021, Patient A was scen by a urologist who suspected a
vesicovaginal fistula’, which is a known complication after vaginal or bladder surgery.

17. On February 3, 2021, a CT confirmed the diagnosis of vesicovaginal fistula, and a
surgical correction was recommended.

18. On March 6, 2021, a vesicovaginal fistula repair was performed by a urologist, and
the operative notes detail that the procedure was successful without complication.

19. Patient A had two follow-up appointments thereafter with other providers and is
diagnosed with PTSD stemming from the surgical complications.

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice
20. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by

reference as though fully set forth herein.

21. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for
disciplinary action against a licensee.

22. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar

circumstances.”

> A vesicovaginal fistula is an abnormal opening that forms between the bladder and the wall of the vagina


Reno, Nevada 89521
(773) 688-2559

'9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

wane orn

i
a
22,

23. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A, when he failed to ensure that Patient A had appropriate
care and was seen in a timely manner, despite Patient A calling his office and telling his staff that
she was experiencing adverse symptoms after her procedure that had complications; and when he
failed to diagnose a vesicovaginal fistula, despite knowledge of Patient A’s adverse symptoms.

24. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records

25. —_Alll of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

26. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

27. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to indicate in the record that he performed an
examination under anesthesia, or that he performed an ultrasound of the cervix or uterus to
establish the appropriate length of the cervix and uterus prior to the procedure. As a result, Patient
A’s medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

28, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2 That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early

Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

40f6

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

"Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(075) 688-2559

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this BE any of June, 2024,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: CN standy Spd
ALEXANDER J. HINMAN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Sof 6

a

Z

BE
3:
ad
£in8,
Bites
Gotta
aisae
eye
og
gz

=z



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

£88.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly swom, hereby deposes and states under penalty of |
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of|
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 3rd day of June, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: iL

BRET W. EY, M.D.
Chairman the Investigative Committee


