OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2589

wa ween

cy

i
13,


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
Pere
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-9681-1
Against:
SAMUEL ANTONIO MUJICA TRENCHE, M.D., FILED
Respondent. MAR 21 2024
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Ml L EXAMINERS.
COMPLAINT *¥:~

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel, and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Samuel Antonio Mujica Trenche, M.D., (Respondent)
violated the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative
Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint,
stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

lL Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a physician holding an active
license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No 5456). Respondent was originally
licensed by the Board on November 22, 1986.

2. Respondent, at all times relevant to this Complaint, held an active Certificate of|
Registration with the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy (Pharmacy Board), No. CS04095.

3. Onor about September 1, 2022, Respondent was served with a Notice of Intended
Action and Accusation (Accusation) by the Pharmacy Board, alleging that in 2022, while acting as
the medical director of Infuze, LLC dba Infuze Wellness Center (Infuze), located at 1590 W.
Horizon Parkway, Suite 110, Henderson, Nevada, Respondent violated various statutes and

regulations within the Pharmacy Board’s jurisdiction.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Col. Eric D. Wade,
USAF (Ret ), and Carl N. Williams, Jr., M.D , FACS.

lof4

‘9600 Gateway Drive
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521

uw



4. In pertinent part, the Pharmacy Board Accusation alleged that Respondent allowed
RN staff or other unlicensed persons to access, possess, and/or administer dangerous drugs to
patients while Respondent was out of the office and/or he failed to ensure all drugs were
inaccessible or locked. Further, by permitting RN staff and/or other unlicensed persons at Infuze
to possess, prescribe, administer, and/or dispense dangerous drugs without a license or registration
to do so, Respondent aided or abetted a person not licensed to possess, prescribe, administer,
and/or dispense dangerous drugs.

5. On or about November 16, 2022, Respondent and the Pharmacy Board entered into
a “Stipulation and Order” (Pharmacy Board Stipulation), hereto attached as Exhibit 1, whereby
the Respondent did not contest the allegations in the Accusation and acknowledged that counsel
for the Pharmacy Board “could present such evidence at an administrative hearing to establish a
factual basis” for the violations against him.

6. On November 30, 2022, the Pharmacy Board adopted the Pharmacy Board
Stipulation and issued an order executing its terms.

1. In the terms of the Pharmacy Board Stipulation, Respondent agreed to pay a fine
and reimburse the Pharmacy Board for a portion of the costs incurred investigating and
prosecuting the matter.

ce TI
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) - Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy

8. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

9. Respondent is a practitioner as defined by NRS 639.0125(1), as a physician, who
holds a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada.

10. NRS 630.306(1}(b)(3) provides that engaging in conduct that violates a provision
of chapter 639 of NRS, or a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy pursuant thereto,
that is applicable to a licensee who is a practitioner, as defined in NRS 639.0125, is grounds for

initiating discipline against a licensee.

20f4

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada £9521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,


a

11. Respondent acknowledged that the evidence against him was sufficient to establish
a factual basis, and thus prove, violations of NRS Chapter 639 when he entered into the Pharmacy
Board Stipulation. Respondent thereby engaged in conduct that violated a provision of Chapter
639 of NRS, a regulation adopted by the Pharmacy Board pursuant thereto.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) and NRS 630.352
WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630,339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 2.) day of March, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

ALEXANDER J. HI [AN

Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

30f4

ey

g

Zz

3:

8%

ges

mzaes

ait

ORste
age

eye

Og

gz




oe

cer aw

ul
a

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE)

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of|
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in

the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.
DATED this 21st day of March, 2024.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: pe

BRET W. BEY, M.D.
Chairman4f the Investigative Committee

4o0f4

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
FILED
NOV 3.0 2022

NEVADA STATE BOARD
OF PHARMACY

BEFORE THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF PHARMACY

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF PHARMACY, Case No, 22-057-CS-S
Petitioner,
v
SAMUEL MUSICA-TRENCHE, MD, STIPULATION AND ORDER

Certificate of Registration No. CS04095,

Respondent,

Courtney K. Lee, General Counsel for Petitioner the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy
(“Board”), and Respondent Samuel Mujica-Trenche, MD (“Mujica-Trenche”), Certificate of
Registration No. CS04095, by and through counsel, Marie Ellerton, Esq., of Hall, Prangle &
Schoonveld, LLC, HEREBY STIPULATE AND AGREE THAT:

1 The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent and this matter.

2. On or about September 1, 2022, Board Staff served Respondent with the Notice
of Intended Action and Accusation (“Accusation”) on file in this matter together with the
Statement to Respondent and Notice of Hearing.

3. In lieu of filing an Answer through counsel, this agreed Stipulation and Order is
presented for the Board’s consideration.

4. Respondent is fully aware of the right to seek the advice of counsel in this matter
and obtained the advice of counsel prior to entering this Stipulation.

5 Respondent is aware of the right to a hearing on the matters alleged in the
Accusation, the right to reconsideration, the right to appeal, and any and all other rights which
may be accorded pursuant to NRS Chapter 233B, Nevada Administrative Procedure Act, NRS
Chapter 622A, Administrative Procedure Before Certain Regulatory Bodies, and NRS Chapter
639, Nevada Pharmacy Act.
6. Conditioned on the acceptance of this Stipulation by the Board, and with the
exception of the right to challenge any determination that Respondent failed to comply with the
provisions of this Stipulation and Order, Respondent hereby freely and voluntarily waives his
right to a hearing, reconsideration, appeal and any and all other rights related to this action that
may be accorded to him by NRS Chapter 233B, Nevada Administrative Procedure Act, NRS
Chapter 622A, Administrative Procedure Before Certain Regulatory Bodies, and NRS Chapter
639, Nevada Pharmacy Act.

7s Respondent admits that evidence exists, and that Board staff prosecuting this case
could present such evidence at an administrative hearing, to establish a factual basis for certain
of the violations alleged in the Accusation, that Respondent Mujica-Trenche:

A. By allowing RN staff or other unlicensed persons to access, possess,
and/or administer dangerous drugs to patients while Dr. Mujica-Trenche was out of the
office, and/or failing to ensure all drugs were inaccessible or locked, Mujica-Trenche
performed his duties as a holder of Nevada Controlled Substance Registration in an
incompetent, unskillful or negligent manner, engaged in unprofessional conduct, conduct
contrary to the public interest in violation of NAC 639,742(3); NAC 639.945(1)(i).

B. _ By permitting RN staff and/or other unlicensed persons at Infuze to
possess, prescribe, administer, and/or dispense dangerous drugs without a license or
registration to do so, and/or without proper practitioner's orders as alleged herein,
Mujica-Trenche aided or abetted a person not licensed to possess, prescribe, administer,
and/or dispense in the State of Nevada, engaged in unprofessional conduct, conduct
contrary to the public interest in violation of NRS 454.311; NRS 454.316; NAC
639.945(1)(j).

C. __ Byallowing or negligently permitting key access by RN staff or

unlicensed persons to access Infuze’s medication room or cabinet containing dangerous
drugs, Mujica-Trenche, as the medical director for Infuze during the relevant timeframes,

failed to maintain proper locked security of drugs in violation of NAC 639.742(3)(c);

NAC 639.745(1)(c).

8. These violations are plead with particularity in the Accusation, and are grounds
for disciplinary action pursuant to NRS 453.236, NRS 453.241, NRS 639.210 and/or NRS
639.255.

a In order to resolve this matter without incurring any further costs or the expense
associated with a hearing, and with Respondent not conceding or admitting to such allegations,
the Board and Respondent stipulate to the following penalties and conditions:

A Pay a fine of Five-Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00) for the alleged violations;
and

B. _ Pay Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) to partially reimburse the Board for
recoverable attorney's fees and costs incurred in investigating and prosecuting this
matter.

10. Any failure by Respondent to comply with the terms of this Order may result in
issuance by the Executive Secretary of an order to show cause pursuant to NAC 639.965
directing that Respondent to appear before the Board at the next regularly-scheduled meeting for
a show cause hearing. If such a hearing results in a finding of a violation of this Order by
Respondent, the Board may impose additional discipline upon Respondent consistent with the
provisions of NRS Chapter 453 and/or Chapter 639.

11. General Counsel will present this Stipulation to the Board for approval pursuant
to NRS 622.330 at the Board's regularly scheduled public meeting on November 30, 2022.
Respondent will appear in person at the meeting to answer questions from the Board Members
and/or Board Staff. The Board Members and Staff may discuss and deliberate regarding this

Stipulation, even if Respondent and/or counsel are not present at the meeting.
12. The Board has discretion to accept this Stipulation, but it is not obligated to do so.
If this Stipulation is approved by the Board, it shall be a public record pursuant to NRS 622.330
and shall be reported to the National Practitioner Data Bank pursuant to 42 USC § 1396r-2 and
45 CFR Part 60.

13. If the Board rejects any part or all of this Stipulation, and unless they reach an
alternative agreement on the record during the hearing, the parties agree that a full hearing on the
merits of this matter may be heard by the Board the same day or at a later date. The terms and
admissions herein may not be used or referred to in a full hearing on the merits of this matter.

14. Upon approval of this Stipulation by the Board, Respondent shall pay the fines
agreed to herein by personal check, business check, cashier's check or certified check or money
order made payable to “State of Nevada, Office of the Treasurer,” to be received by the Board’s
Reno office located at 985 Damonte Ranch Parkway — Suite 206, Reno, Nevada 89521, within
thirty (30) of the effective date of this Order.

15. Upon approval of this Stipulation by the Board, Respondent shall pay the
attomney’s fees and costs agreed to herein by personal check, business check, cashier's check or
cerlified check or money order made payable to “Nevada State Board of Pharmacy,” to be
received by the Board’s Reno office located at 985 Damonte Ranch Parkway — Suite 206, Reno,
Nevada 89521, within thirty (30) of the effective date of this Order.

16. Subject to the approval of this Stipulation by the Board, the Board and
Respondent agree to release one another from any and all additional claims arising from the facts
set forth in the Accusation on file herein, whether known or unknown that might otherwise have

existed on or before the effective date of this Order.
Respondent has fully considered the charges and allegations contained in the Notice of
Intended Action and Accusation in this matter, and the terms of this Stipulation, and has
freely and voluntarily agreed to the terms set forth, and waived certain rights, as stated

herei

AGREED:

Signed this day ot MOM 2022

pds

SAMUEL MUNCA-ARENCHE, MD
Centificate of Registration No. CS04095

APPROVED “sip FORM ID
CONTENT this /6 day of Ai», 2022

Vin Elle-shor

signed this [Gay of Nov. , 2022

f

MARYE ELLERTON, ESQ.
Counsel for Respondent
Samuel Mujica-Trenche, MD

COURTNEY K. LEE, ESQ.
General Counsel
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy
ORDER

The Nevada State Board of Pharmacy hereby adopts the foregoing Stipulation as to
Respondent Samuel Mujica-Trenche, MD, Certificate of Registration No. CS04095. in Case No
22-057-CS-S, and hereby orders that the terms of the foregoing Stipulation be made effective
upon execution below.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

Entered whis 2 ay of November. 2022.

Helen Park, President
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy
