ao ND

\O

1]
\7

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-7546-1

Complaint Against ) FI

LED
LYNN GREENHOUSE, M.D., ) JUN:-7 2013

) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. By: EDA EXAMIN RS

AMENDED SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of
Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Ms. Valerie Clark BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and
Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, by and through, Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.,
Board General Counsel and Attorney for the IC, and Lynn Greenhouse, M.D. (Respondent), by
and through her counsel Shawn K. Jones, Esq., of the law firm of Wilson, Barrows, Salyer & Jones
as follows:

WHEREAS, on December 1, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: two counts
of engaging in conduct which is in violation of a regulation of the State Board of Pharmacy as set
forth in Counts I and II of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(c); one count of and one
count of administering, dispensing or prescribing any controlled substance, or any dangerous drug
to herself or others except as authorized by law as set forth in Count III of the Complaint, a
violation of NRS 630.306(3) that was previously resolved by Settlement Agreement between the
parties;

Ml


\O


WHEREAS, the IC received and review subsequent potentially valid defenses, including,
but not limited to, potentially valid claims of confusion over the meaning and extent of the original
settlement agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint and the
subsequent claims of confusion and matters of clarification in this matter, understands them, and
has consulted with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint and
subsequent investigative complaints and Respondent is fully advised concerning her rights and
defenses to the complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that she has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act. Respondent has reviewed all the relevant facts and circumstances of this
matter and after due consideration and consultation with her counsel and after due consideration,
while not admitting or denying any of the allegations set forth in the Complaint, desires to resolve
these matters by agreement without any further costs and expense of providing a defense.

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Amended Settlement
Agreement is entered into by and between herself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and
not with the Board, but that the Investigative Committee will present this Amended Settlement
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a Board meeting, appropriately
noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall advocate approval of this Amended Settlement
Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or
not to approve this Amended Settlement Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of _ this
Amended Settlement Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall
be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to further clarify the original Settlement Agreement in the
above-captioned case and to resolve the subsequent claims of confusion and matters of
clarification regarding this Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee, Respondent and

the Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:


\O




1, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter pending against her

without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the Complaint, Respondent, while
not admitting or denying the allegations set forth in the Complaint, hereby agrees that an Amended
Settlement Agreement in this matter is fair and appropriate and that an order may be entered herein
by the Board accepting the Amended Settlement Agreement as detailed below after previously
finding by Settlement Agreement that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: two counts of engaging in conduct in
violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy as set forth in Counts I and II of
the Complaint, violations of NRS 630.306(2)(c).
a) The Board shall further order that Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall
be suspended for a period of forty-eight (48) months, said suspension being stayed and
Respondent being placed on probation for a period of forty-eight (48) months to expire on
March 9, 2016 subject to the following terms and conditions:
b) Respondent was previously issued a public reprimand by the Board;
c) Respondent shall apply for a certificate of registration from the Nevada State Board
of Pharmacy to dispense controlled substances or dangerous drugs and apply for and
maintain a license from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) for controlled substances;
d) General Counsel on behalf of Board shall author a letter to the DEA and Nevada
State Board of Pharmacy confirming Respondent’s current compliant status with the Board
immediately upon execution by Respondent and her attorney;
e) Respondent shall complete ten (10) hours of AMA category one continuing
medical education (CME) in addition to those hours required to maintain licensure, on the
topic of pain management for chronic pain patients or related topic. Respondent’s
participation may be in-person or on-line. Said CME credits are to be completed within
twelve (12) months of the adoption and acceptance of this Agreement by the Board and
which must be pre-approved by the Chairman of the Investigative Committee;
Mf
Hl



1]

f) Respondent shall remain in compliance with all state and federal laws pertaining to
the practice of medicine and the prescribing, administering or dispensing of any dangerous
drug or controlled substance; and,

g) Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred

in the subsequent investigation and prosecution, the current amount being $1,062.19,

including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. The costs shall be
paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within ninety (90) days of the
acceptance of this Agreement by the Board.

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was, at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter and the investigative complaints, a physician licensed to practice medicine
in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the
Act.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this

Amended Settlement Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with the advice of above
identified counsel. In connection with this Amended Settlement Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or
that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed
herein and the investigative complaints, the defense of said Complaint and the adjudication of the
charges in said Complaint and the matters of clarification, and Respondent further agrees that the
matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint was already settled and
resolved in accordance with the previous Settlement Agreement without a hearing or any further
proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Amended Settlement
Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Amended Settlement Agreement shall have no force
and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States

Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B

mo Oo “SD


that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection with the
proceeding on the complaint filed herein and the investigative complaints.

4, Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Amended Settlement Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the
recommendation of the Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and
counsel for the Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and
conditions contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending
herein against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of
this Amended Settlement Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such
contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity
to be heard on her part or on the part of her counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where
this Amended Settlement Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications
may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Amended Settlement Agreement, the
Complaint and the allegations therein and the matters of clarification, any and all evidence that
may exist in support of the Complaint and the matters of clarification, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to the Complaint and the matters of clarification
involving Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that Respondent and
her counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Amended Settlement Agreement is
discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

5. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Amended Settlement Agreement, counsel for
the Investigative Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this
Amended Settlement Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering
that this case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.


a

IT NN


6. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Amended Settlement Agreement, this
Amended Settlement Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as
to the following covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel
members. Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Amended Settlement
Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of
the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Amended
Settlement Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the
Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary
proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further agrees that
she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

7. Release From Liability. In execution of this Amended Settlement Agreement,

the Respondent, for herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever
discharges the state of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their
members, agents and employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual
capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action,
suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in
law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all
of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this
investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with
the complaint. The Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this
Amended Settlement Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with
the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

Further, this Amended Settlement Agreement is a release and discharge, subject
to its express terms and conditions, of Respondent for all related conduct, including specifically,
complaints for medical services provided by Respondent on or before October 1, 2010,
regardless of when such matter, action or complaint is filed or brought to the attention of the

Board.

rN

a HN WN


8. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this

Amended Settlement Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the
Board’s Investigative Committee which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having
jurisdiction.

9. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Amended Settlement Agreement in the
district court, she consents to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive
jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the
County of Washoe.

10. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Amended
Settlement Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and

attorneys’ fees.

11. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Amended Settlement Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or
condition recited herein, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing
which will be duly noticed. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result
in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an Order of
the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to

HMI

Hl

HI

Mf

//f

Ml

HI




reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this | Att day of Pe , 2013.
Ae

Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners


UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

, am
é i’

Lynn Greenhouse, M.D. Respondent

Peace , 2013

Dated this % Oday of

Dated this_ 8” dayof Apaere , 2013.

w» Lean flue

Shawn K. Ines, Esq.
Wilson Barrows Salyer Jones



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Amended Settlement Agreement is approved and

accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of June 2013, with the final

UT ALA

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

total amount of costs due of $1,062.19.

