
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

ReKRE SK

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 12-28540-2

Complaint Against

FILED
DEC 11 208

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDD EXAMINERS”
By: _,
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

ANGELA LORENZO, P.A.-C,

Respondent.

Nee” Ne” eee” eee See “ee “ee” ee”

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board) composed of
Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Ms. Valerie Clark BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and
Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, by and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.,
Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and Angela Lorenzo, P.A.-C (Respondent), by and
through her counsel, Jacob L. Hafter, Esq., of Hafter Law, as follows:

WHEREAS, on May 17, 2012, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above-captioned
matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act (MPA), Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630, to wit: Count I, one count of malpractice, defined by
NAC 630.040 as the failure of a physician assistant, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable
care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances, a violation of
NAC 630.380(1)(f); Count II, one count of malpractice, defined by NAC 630.040 as the failure of
a physician assistant, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily
used under similar circumstances, a violation of NAC 630.380(1)(f); Count III, one count of the

continual failure to exercise the skill or diligence or use the methods ordinarily exercised under the


same circumstances by a physician assistant in good standing practicing in the same specialty or
field, a violation of NRS 630.306(7); and Count IV, one count of failure to maintain timely,
legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a
patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1);

WHEREAS, on January 30, 3012, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint against Respondent in
Case No. 12-28540-1, charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that constitutes multiple
violations that are grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA;

WHEREAS, the Board currently has multiple open investigations pending against
Respondent;

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the instant formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with her counsel concerning the nature
and significance of the formal Complaint in this matter. Respondent has done likewise with the
formal Complaint in case number 12-28540-1, and has had ample opportunity to consult with her
counsel concerning the nature and significance of all open investigative complaints against her as
described below. Respondent is fully aware concerning her rights and defenses to the open formal
Complaints and the open investigative complaints, as well as the possible sanctions that may be
imposed if the Board finds and concludes that she has engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between herself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon her.

Ii


NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician assistant licensed to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations
of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_ Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by legal counsel in this matter and has had ample opportunity to
review this Agreement, the formal Complaints filed against her, the open investigative complaints
against her and the related factual bases of all the foregoing with said legal counsel,
Jacob L. Hafter, Esq. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly and intelligently.

3. Waiver _of Rights. Respondent waives all rights in connection with this
Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding
that Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant
to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA,
NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to her or that may apply to
her in connection with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said
formal Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this
Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to her
or that may apply to her in connection with the proceeding on the formal Complaint filed herein.

Mf



4, Consent _to Entry of Order. Respondent concedes only that the Board has

sufficient evidence to proceed with its formal Complaint against her, but does not concede or
admit to such allegations, which she expressly denies, and which, but for her desire to reach this
compromise, she would contest at the formal hearing of this matter. Accordingly, in order to
resolve the matter without incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to the formal
Complaint or to any other further amended Complaint, or to the formal Complaint in
Case No. 12-28540-1, and to any open investigative complaints as described below, and in
exchange for the waiver of the Respondent’s foregoing rights, Respondent has entered into this
Agreement’, and agrees that:

a, Based upon the Respondent’s plea of no contest to the allegations, the
Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
MPA, to wit: malpractice, defined by NAC 630.040 as the failure of a physician assistant, in
treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances, a violation of NAC 630.380(1)(f), as set forth in Counts I and II of the formal
Complaint;

b. Based upon the Respondent’s plea of no contest to the allegations, the
Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
MPA, to wit: the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records
relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1), as set
forth in Count IV;

c. Count III of the this Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice;

d. The Board shall order that Respondent shall be placed on probation for a
period of twenty-four (24) months, subject to all of the Agreement terms and conditions contained

herein beginning upon the date of acceptance by the Board;

' All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court
proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


e. Respondent shall, during the entire length of probation, maintain current
Drug Enforcement Agency registration for controlled substances. Respondent shall provide written
proof of this registration annually to the Board on or before December 6, 2014 and December 6,
2015;

f. Respondent shall, during the entire length of probation, maintain current
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy registration. Respondent shall provide written proof of this
annually to the Board during the term of probation on or before December 6, 2014 and December 6,
2015;

g. Respondent shall immediately notify the Board, in writing, of any
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy discipline imposed, or any discipline imposed by any other
medically related Board, i.e. another state medical Board, and shall remain fully compliant with each;

h. Respondent shall remain in compliance with all state and federal laws
pertaining to the practice of medicine and the prescribing, administering or dispensing of any
dangerous drugs or controlled substances;

1. Respondent shall remain in compliance with any other Board settlement
agreement she has entered into or will enter into during the course of probation;

j. Respondent shall receive a public reprimand which will be limited to
Respondent’s no contest plea to the failure of a physician assistant, in treating a patient, to use the
reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances, a violation of
NAC 630.380(1)(f), as set forth in Counts I and II of the formal Complaint, and the failure to
maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1), as set forth in Count IV;

k. Pursuant to NRS 622.400 and negotiations of the parties, Respondent shall
reimburse the Board the sum of $15,000.00, the negotiated amount of the fees and costs incurred
by the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter and all underlying matters. The fees and
costs shall be paid to the Board within eighteen (18) months of the Board’s acceptance and

approval of this Agreement;

22.

1. Respondent shall complete twenty (20) hours of
Continuing Medical Education (CME) related to diagnosis/treatment of hypothyroidism,
hyperthyroidism, hormonal imbalances in men/women, uses of testosterone and/or medical ethics.
The twenty (20) hours of CME shall be in addition to the CME requirements that are regularly
imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada and shall be
completed within one (1) year of the Board's acceptance and approval of this Agreement. It is
understood by the parties that Respondent shall submit proof of prior attendance at and
participation in CMEs to the Board’s Compliance Officer for Board approval that can be used to
satisfy this CME requirement. The Board shall not unreasonably withhold approval for the prior
CMEs provided to it by Respondent;

m. Respondent shall perform twenty (20) hours of community service in any
medically related field within one (1) year of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this
Agreement;

n, Case No. 12-28540-1 shall be dismissed in its entirety with prejudice;

0. All Board open investigative complaints and/or open formal complaints as
of the date of the Board’s approval of this Settlement Agreement shall be fully and finally resolved
by the terms and conditions contained herein, and be deemed closed with prejudice without any
further action as of the date of this Agreement; and,

p. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges
the state of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents
and employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of

or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.


6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part, or on the part of her
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or her counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case
be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 4.

8. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to the efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the

adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating



in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.
Further, this Settlement Agreement and Order shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon
each of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal representatives, assigns and
successors in interest and shall resolve any and all open Board investigations or open formal Board
complaints as of the date of the Board’s approval of this Agreement .

HI

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order

approving, accepting and adopting this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any
term or condition recited herein, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause
hearing, which will be duly noticed and scheduled. Further, the Board may then have grounds,
after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent, including but not limited
to, potential revocation of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada and/or
any other discipline authorized by the MPA. In addition, Respondent shall be subject to the
discipline outlined herein for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

in > Le) to

Oo wo SN


agreed to be paid asa win settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this oy, 4 Asay of /

Pubs-W13,

Dated this 22 dayof Ov. 2013.

By: : a
<—Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Attomey for the Investigative Committee

By

Jacob IL. Hafter, Esq.
Attomtey for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Angela Lorenzo, P.A.-C, Respondent

11/22/2813


ca


13:41 7822428688 MODERN MEDICAL PAGE 41/81

Dated this day of , 2013.

By

Bradley 0. Van Ry, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this day of , 2013,

B

y:
Jacob L. Hafter, Esq.
Attomey for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Angela Lorenzo, P.A.-C, Respondent

oOo NN DWN WN

\Oo


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6" day of December 2013, with the final total amount

of costs due of $15,000.00.

Michael 9Fischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

