


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 12-287-1
Complaint Against FILED
ALFREDO A. HIBBERT, P.A.-C, ) MAR 11 2013
) By: <<<
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed at the time of filing the
formal Complaint of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, |
Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
its counsel, Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
Alfredo A. Hibbert, P.A.-C. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, Maria Nutile, Esq., as
follows:

WHEREAS, on September 20, 2012, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-captioned matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), iie., Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC), to wit: Count I:
thirteen (13) counts of falsifying health care records, thirteen (13) violations of NAC
630.230(1)(a); Count II: thirteen (13) counts of administering, dispensing or possessing any
controlled substance otherwise than in the course of legitimate medical services or as authorized
by law and the supervising physician, thirteen (13) violations of NAC 630.380(1)h); Count IIT:

thirteen (13) counts of engaging in conduct that is intended to deceive and/or violates a regulation

NO



adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy, thirteen (13) violations of NRS 630.306(2)(a) and (c);
Count IV: thirteen (13) counts of disobeying any provision of the State Board of Pharmacy or
NAC 630.010 et seq., thirteen (13) violations of NAC 630.380(1)(g); and Count V: thirteen (13)
counts of prescribing a drug to a patient with whom the prescribing practitioner does not have a
bona fide therapeutic relationship, thirteen (13) violations of NRS 630.306(2)(c) referencing NAC
639.945(1)(0) & (3); and

WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and consulted with competent counsel, Maria Nutile, Esq., concerning the nature
and significance of the formal Complaint. Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the
Board finds and concludes that he violated one or more provisions of the
MPA; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA
and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to,
the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and
Mf
Mt

N



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a certified physician assistant licensed to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate
charges of violations of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by counsel herein, whom Respondent covenants and agrees is
fully capable, competent and fully advised in these circumstances, and Respondent further
covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently
after full consultation with and upon advice of above-identified counsel.

3, Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the
advice of above-identified counsel, waives all rights in connection with this Agreement, and the
terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding that Respondent
knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B,
and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection
with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint,
the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review.

Mf



4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the MPA.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without incurring any further costs and expense of providing a
defense to the formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an Order
finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA, to
wit: thirteen (13) counts of falsifying health care records, thirteen (13) violations of
NAC 630.230(1)(a), as set forth in Count I of the formal Complaint, and thirteen (13) counts of
administering, dispensing or possessing any controlled substance otherwise than in the course of
legitimate medical services or as authorized by law and the supervising physician, thirteen (13)
violations of NAC 630.380(1)(h), as set forth in Count II of the formal Complaint.
For the aforementioned violations, Respondent shall:

a. Allow his license to be suspended, with said suspension stayed and that
Respondent shall be placed on probation for a period of thirty-six (36) months from the date of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, with an obligation to comply with
the following terms and conditions:

(1) | Respondent shall be prohibited from dispensing controlled
substances for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement;

(2) Respondent shall remain in compliance with all state and federal
laws pertaining to the practice of medicine and the prescribing, administering or
dispensing of any dangerous drug or controlled substance;

(3) Respondent shall obtain, if necessary, and maintain all appropriate
registrations and licenses with the DEA and the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy
to prescribe, administer or dispense any dangerous drugs or controlled substances;

(4) Respondent shall be required to report this Agreement to all of his


a]


supervising physicians during the period of probation and provide proof of such to

the Board;
b. Receive a public reprimand;
c. Pay a fine in the amount of Five Thousand Two Hundred Dollars and

00/100 ($5,200.00) to the Board within twelve (12) months of the Board’s acceptance, adoption
and approval of this Agreement;

d. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of
$3,231.99, the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this
matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. A final accounting of the total costs
shall be provided to Respondent in the entry of the Board’s Order relating to this matter. The
costs shall be paid to the Board within twelve (12) months of the Board’s acceptance, adoption
and approval of this Agreement;

e, Counts III, IV, and V of the formal Complaint shall be dismissed; and

f. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

7, Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may

communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Mf



Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered
herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members,
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent
covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent

and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

oOo eo ~




11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in Washoe County and for the County of

Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order

approving, accepting and adopting this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any
term or condition recited herein, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause
hearing, which will be duly noticed and scheduled. Further, failure to comply with the terms
recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a
violation of an order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure
of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement

may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

aon
Dated this (7 day of Letenaeeg: 2013. Dated this _/3° day of Febrtitieny. 2013.
By: _Cihébea Z- By: YL Atde

Erin L. Albright, bq. Marit. Nutile, Ede:
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent

UNDERSTOO AGREED:

Alfredo A. Hibbert, P.A.-C, Respondent
Dated this / 2 dayof_ 2, 2013.


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of March 2013, with the final total amount of

costs due of $3,231.99.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

