r0))



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR K SK

Case No. 12-30027-1

FILED
MAR 11 2013

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDIGAL EXAMINER
By: ve

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

In the Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against

CATHALINE L. PEARSON, P.A.-C,

Respondent.

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed at the time of filing the
formal Complaint of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCE,
Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through its
counsel, Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
Cathaline L. Pearson, P.A.-C. (Respondent), by and through her counsel, Maria Nutile, Esq., as
follows:

WHEREAS, on December 20, 2012, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-captioned matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i., Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC), to wit: Count I, one
count of performing medical services that were not approved by the supervising physician, a
violation of NAC 630.380(1)(d); Count II, one violation of engaging in any sexual activity with a
patient who is currently being treated by the practitioner, a violation of NRS 630.301(5); and

Count IIL, one violation of failing to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical

Ii



records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1);
and

WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and consulted with competent counsel, Maria Nutile, Esq., concerning the nature
and significance of the formal Complaint. Respondent is fully advised concerning her rights and
defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the
Board finds and concludes that she violated one or more provisions of the
MPA; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that she has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA
and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to,
the right to a formal hearing on the charges against her, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against her, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to her; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between herself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon her.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following

terms, covenants and conditions:



1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a certified physician assistant licensed to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate
charges of violations of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by counsel herein, whom Respondent covenants and agrees is
fully capable, competent and fully advised in these circumstances, and Respondent further
covenants and agrees that she enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently
after full consultation with and upon advice of above-identified counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the
advice of above-identified counsel, waives all rights in connection with this Agreement, and the
terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding that Respondent
knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B,
and any other statutory rights that may be available to her or that may apply to her in connection
with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint,
the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the MPA.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against her without incurring any further costs and expense of providing a
defense to the formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an Order

Ht




finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
MPA, and agrees that:

a. The Board may find Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: one count of performing medical services that were not
approved by the supervising physician, a violation of NAC 630.380(1)(d), as set forth in Count I
of the formal Complaint, and one count of failing to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of
NRS 630.3062(1), as set forth in Count III of the formal Complaint;

b. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of $814.34,
the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter,
along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the Board within
sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement;

on Respondent shall obtain and maintain all appropriate state and federal
registrations required to provide professional services at all locations at which she practices;

d. Respondent shall personally assess all patients prior to prescribing,
administering or dispensing any dangerous drug or controlled substance;

e. Respondent shall maintain proper medical records for all patients,

f. Respondent shall ensure that dangerous drugs and controlled substances are
stored and accessed in accordance with federal and state laws;

g. Respondent shall provide a copy of this Agreement to each of her
supervising physicians and provide proof of such to the Board within thirty (30) days of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement; and

h. Count II of the formal Complaint shall be dismissed.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and

employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all

HI]





manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board,
Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts

and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the

formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal

Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or her counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its

counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered
herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.

Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing



contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement ‘is approved by the Board, Respondent
covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent

and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

Laction is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order accepting,

approving and adopting this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or
condition recited herein, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which
will be duly noticed and scheduled. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may
result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an

H/


If

Ml

If


Mf


Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent

to reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this /3" day of February, 2013.

Erin L. Albright, Eq
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this J day of Fe fas, 2013,
By: Wes Shah

Maria/Nutle Esq. \.

Attortey for Responden

Cathaline L’ n, P.A.-C, Respondent
Dated this day of , 2013.


sa DN WN


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of March 2013, with the final total amount of

costs due of $814.34.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

