

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 12-4518-1
Complaint Against ) FILED
THEODORE M. THORP, M.D., ) SEP 06 2013
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. ) By: MEBITAL EXAMINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed at the time of filing the
formal First Amended Complaint of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN,
RHU, LUTCF, Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter,
by and through Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
Theodore M. Thorp, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, Matthew J. Peirce, Esq., as
follows:

WHEREAS, on May 13, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal First Amended Complaint in
the above-captioned matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC), to wit:
Count I, two counts of failure to adequately supervise a physician assistant, two violations of NAC
630.230(1)(i); Count II, two counts of engaging in unprofessional conduct, two violations of NRS
630.306(16); Count III, one count of failure to adequately supervise a medical assistant, a
violation of NRS 630.306(18); and Count IV, one count of signing a blank prescription form, a
violation of NRS 630.304(4); and



WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and consulted with competent above-identified counsel concerning the nature and

significance of the formal Complaint. Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and

|| defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the

Board finds and concludes that he violated one or more provisions of the
MPA; and .

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA
and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to,
the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree! to the following

terms, covenants and conditions:

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said
agreements and admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of


fk OW bd



1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations
of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified counsel herein, whom Respondent
covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these circumstances, and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly,
and intelligently after full consultation with and upon advice of above-identified counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights, In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

{and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the

advice of above-identified counsel, waives all rights in connection with this Agreement, and the
terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding that Respondent
knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B,
and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection
with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint,
the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions.
Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and

without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the MPA.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without incurring any further costs and expense of providing a

defense to the formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an Order

another state or federal government regulatary agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, or any
other state or federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.




finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA,
and agrees that:

a. The Board may find Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: one count of failure to adequately supervise a physician
assistant, a violation of NAC 630.230(1)(i), as set forth in Count I of the formal Complaint, one
count of failure to adequately supervise a medical assistant, a violation of NRS 630.306(16), as set
forth in Count III of the formal Complaint; and one count of signing a blank prescription form, a
violation of NRS 630.304(4), as set forth in Count IV of the formal Complaint,

b. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of Five Thousand Dollars and 00/100
($5,000.00) to the Board within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement:

On Respondent shall complete fifteen (15) hours of Continuing Medical
Education ), in person, regarding the subject of supervising physician assistants and/or
medical assistants, within one year of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by
the Board. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that
are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada and shall
be approved by the Board prior to their completion;

(‘4 e. Respondent shall complete ten (10) hours of community service in a
medically heated field;

f. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of
$2,678.36, the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this
matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. A final accounting of the total costs
shall be provided to Respondent in the entry of the Board’s order relating to this matter. The costs
shall be paid to the Board within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement;

g. One of the two counts of failure to adequately supervise a physician

assistant as set forth in Count I of the formal Complaint shall be dismissed;

i Be BOND



h. One of the two counts of failure to adequately supervise a medical assistant

as set forth in Count III of the formal Complaint shall be dismissed;

i, Count II of the formal Complaint shall be dismissed;

j. Respondent shall remain in compliance with all state and federal laws
pertaining to the practice of medicine and the prescribing, administering or dispensing of any
dangerous drug or controlled substance; and

k, The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

6. Release From Liability, In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors.and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

7. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.
Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent, The IC and its counsel agree that

Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is

Mf


co ©


discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel. ,

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered
herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent
covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.


13.‘ Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.
Dated this_ |S day of _{ }, ead 2013. Dated this /Y dayof_ Aué.

Lhe
Erin L. Albright, Esd.

Ca, Ed Y GA
Attomey for the Investigative Committee

2013.

Dan Winder, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD pe S
Theodore M. ‘Thorp, M..19., Respondent
Dated this _!4 “dayofAug ,2013.


\o


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6" day of September 2013, with the final total

amount of costs due of $2,678.36.

Benj amin J . Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

