1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
. Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


Case No. 13-12350-1

In the Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against ) FILED
CHRISTOPHER T. PATIN, M.D., ) DEC 11 2013
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. ) By: MEDACAL EXAMINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed at the time of filing the
formal Complaint of Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Chairman, Beverly A. Neyland, M.D.,
Member, and Donna A. Ruthe, Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and . attomey for the IC, and
Christopher T. Patin, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on April 30, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the above-
captioned matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that‘is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC), to wit: Count I, one
count of malpractice as defined by NAC 630.040, a violation of NRS 630.301(4); and Count IJ,
one count of failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to
the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1); and

WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel concerning the

nature and significance of the formal Complaint. Respondent is fully advised concerning his

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Oo Cfo A W


tights and defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed
if the Board finds and concludes that he violated one or more provisions of the MPA; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA
and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to,
the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree! to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint

filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of


1 All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said
agreements and admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of
another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any
other state or federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559





. 24


Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.
2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented by counsel and wishes to proceed
towards a resolution of this matter, as set forth in this Agreement, without counsel. Respondent
understands and acknowledges that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement. Respondent agrees that if counsel is retained for representation in this matter prior to
entering into this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be informed of such representation prior
to Respondent executing this Agreement. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into
this Agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights in connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained
herein, and with the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the
state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceedings on the formal
Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint, the adjudication of the charges in
said formal Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the MPA.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without incurring any further costs and expense of providing a

defense to the formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an Order

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA,
and agrees that:

a. The Board may find Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: one count of malpractice as defined by NAC 630.040, a
violation of NRS 630.301(4), as set forth in Count I of the formal Complaint;

b. Respondent shall pay a fine of One Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100
Dollars ($1,500.00) to the Board within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the Boards
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement;

C. Respondent shall complete ten (10) hours of Continuing Medical Education
(CME), in person, regarding diagnosing and treating renal insufficiency, within one year of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board. The aforementioned hours of
CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent
as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their
completion;

d. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of
$1,983.29 the current amount of the fees and costs incurred by the Board to investigate and
prosecute this matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid
to the Board within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and

approval of this Agreement;

€. Count II of the formal Complaint shall be dismissed;
f. Respondent shall receive a public reprimand; and
g. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.
6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands

whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

3S
PSH
Bea
ae3
gee
E4~&
B Ee
Ww

S &

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out
of, or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related
to the formal Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel
agree that Respondent and/or his counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or its counsel. .

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered
herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek

acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

YY N


adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent
covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving
this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with
Mf
MY
M/

Mt
Mf
MH
MH


N
#3.
BH we
Bagi
a3
Ags
g4e
oS &
ES
ae

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners




NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject aa to civil collection efforts.

Dated this \ TN day of ( Y \ooe , 2013.
By: Eid bicod

Erin X. Albright, Es
Attorney for the tavestigative Committee

Dated this \(P day of Oke, 2013.

REED:

at

UNDERSTOOD AND

By:
Christopher T. Patin, M.D.
Respondent

STATE OF NEVADA )

28S,
COUNTY OF WASHOE _)

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me

this \T day of OYE. 2013.

Notary? ublic

(E> DALENE ALTAMIRANO
‘s273\ Notary Public - State of Nevada i

P<} Appointment Records... is Washos County :
ze” No: 96-0183-2-E.. sg fugust 1, 2016 #

S



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6" day of December 2013, with the final total amount

of costs due of $1,983.29.

Michael IFischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

