Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RREKESR

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 13-26118-1

Complaint Against ) FILED

) - 9 2013
THOMAS EDWIN GARRISON, M.D., _) ocr ;

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
) MEDICAL EXAMINERS
Respondent. ) yo
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), composed at the time of filing this Complaint of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, by and
through Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Thomas Edwin Garrison, M.D. (Respondent), violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its formal Complaint,
stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 10304), and was so
licensed by the Board on August 27, 2002, pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Respondent’s
specialties listed with the Board are Emergency Medicine and Dermatology.

2. Respondent was so licensed at the time of the incidents complained of in this
matter in the states of California, Washington, Arizona, Utah and Illinois.

3. On or about February 24, 2012, the Medical Board of California revoked

Respondent’s physician and surgeon certificate number C 50929, when it adopted as the Decision

‘and Order of the Medical Board of California, the Department of Consumer Affairs, State of

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

$3
man
@ 6 12
Bass
S23
e358
fos
EZG
ose
eg
Sm
haat

wt



California, Administrative Law Judge Stephen J. Smith’s Proposed Decision dated December 23,
2011 revoking Respondent’s physician and surgeon certificate.

4, Subsequently, and as a result, on or about March 6, 2012, the State of Washington,
Department of Health, Medical Quality Assurance Commission, issued its Ex Parte Order of
Summary Suspension of Respondent’s credentials to practice as a physician and surgeon.

5. On or about August 2, 2012, the Arizona Medical Board entered its Order for
Decree of Censure and Consent against Respondent.

6. On or about November 15, 2012, the State of Washington, Department of Health,
Medical Quality Assurance Commission, accepted and entered the Stipulated Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law and Agreed Order, wherein Respondent voluntarily surrendered his license to
practice as a physician and surgeon in the state of Washington.

7. On or about March 26, 2013, the Division of Occupational and Professional
Licensing, Department of Commerce, State of Utah, entered its Stipulation and Order against
Respondent, wherein his license to practice as a physician/surgeon in the state of Utah was
restricted, and he surrendered his license to administer and prescribe controlled substances.

8. On or about May 6, 2013, the State of Illinois, Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation, Division of Professional Regulation, issued its Notice of Intent to Refuse
to Renew Respondent’s license to practice as a physician and surgeon.

COUNT I
(Multiple Counts)

9. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

10. NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state, is grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee. |

11. The action of the Medical Board of California in revoking Respondent’s physician
and surgeon certificate; the action of the State of Washington, Department of Health, Medical

Quality Assurance Commission, in summarily suspending and accepting Respondent’s voluntary

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



surrender of his license to practice as a physician and surgeon; the action of the Arizona Medical
Board in issuing its Order for Decree of Censure against Respondent; the action of the State of
Utah, Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing, Department of Commerce, in
restricting Respondent’s license to practice as a physician/surgeon and accepting Respondent’s
surrender of license to administer and prescribe controlled substances; and, the action of the
State of Illinois, Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, Division of Professional
Regulation, in issuing its Notice of Intent to Refuse to Renew Respondent’s license to practice as
a physician and surgeon, all constitute disciplinary action taken by another state(s) against
Respondent that is/are grounds for initiating discipline against Respondent.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC requests:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an
Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determines the sanctions it will impose if it finds Respondent
violated the Medical Practice Act; |

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent, in writing, its findings of
fact, conclusions of law and order, which shall include the sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this ] toy of October, 2013.

INVESTIGA

NEADS SIS 'E BEARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
py. SB Sf ~

y:
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE ) -

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical. Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes

the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and

correct.

Dated this qt say of Octoloen , 2013.

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.
Chairman

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 9" day of October 2013; I served a filed copy of the COMPLAINT and Fingerprint

Information, via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to the following:

Thomas Garrison, M.D.
8900 E. Pinnacle Peak Rd., Ste. E200
Scottsdale, AZ 85255

Dated this 9" day of October, 2013.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

