OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 13-38678-1

Complaint Against ) FILE D

JOSEPH C. EMPEY, M.D., ) JAN 10 2013

) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. ) By: MEDI>AL EXAMINERS _
) :
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Ms. Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and
Michael J. Fischer, M.D., at the time of the authorization of filing this formal Complaint, by and
through Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the
Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Joseph C. Empey, M.D.,
hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's
charges and allegations, as follows:

1, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
October 24, 2011, Respondent’s license to practice medicine is currently in active status, and at all
times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the Board pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the NRS.

2. In August of 2012, Respondent entered into a Stipulation and Order with the
Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing of the Department of Commerce of the State
of Utah (see Exhibit 1), which acknowledged that he had previously engaged in conduct which
justified disciplinary action against him. The Stipulation and Order called for Respondent to be

publicly reprimanded, as well as accomplishing other additional terms as conditions of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



Stipulation. Of import, Respondent never noticed the Board of the Stipulation and Order entered
into between himself and the state of Utah.

3. Section 630.301(3) of the NRS provides that any disciplinary action, including
without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the license to practice
any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction, is grounds for disciplinary action,

4, The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Utah constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

5. Section 630.306(11) of the NRS provides that the failure by a licensee to report in
writing, within 30 days, any disciplinary action taken against the licensee by another state, is
grounds for disciplinary action.

6. The failure of Respondent to report to the Board the disciplinary action in the state
of Utah constitutes a violation of NRS 630.306(11).

7. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(3) and
NRS 630.306(11), and is subject to discipline by the Board as provided NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him,

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 10" day of January, 2013.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.
Attomey for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
> SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE _ )

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under
penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he
has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this 10" day of January, 2013.

Haein ) Baro

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
J hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 10" day of January 2013; I served a filed copy of the Complaint w/exhibit and Fingerprint

information via USPS e- certified return receipt mail to the following:

Joseph C. Empey, M.D.
368 E. riverside Dr., Ste. 3B
Saint George, UT 84790-7068

Dated this 10" day of January, 2013.
bs AD hoe

Angelif L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT

EXHIBIT

BEFORE THE DIVISION OF OCCUPATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LICENSING
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

OF THE STATE OF UTAH

ss. Joseph Courtney Empey
State of Utah
Case No. DOPL-2012-382
County of Salt Lake

I hereby certify that the attached documents consist of a
true and correct copy of the original STIPULATION AND ORDER, now
of record or on file in the office of the Division of
Occupational and Professional Licensing of the State of Utah.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed

the seal of said Division this ) day of September, 2012.
(Aim Lesh

Administrative Secretary

DAN LAU (USB No. 8233)

Assistant Attomey General

MARK-L. SHURTLEFF (USB No. 4666)
Utah Attomey General

Commercial Enforcement Division

Heber M. Wells Building, Fifth Floor
Box 146741

Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-6741.

Tel: (801) 366-0310

peveteen

BEFORE THE DIVISION OF OCCUPATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LICENSING
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

OF THE STATE OF UTAH

IN THR MATTER OF THE LICENSES OF )
JOSEPH COURTNEY BMPEY TOPRACTICE ) STIPULATION AND ORDER
AS A PHYSICIAN/SURGEON AND TO 5
ADMINISTER AND PRESCRIBE \}  CASENO. : DOPL 2012-32
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN THE STATE )


OF UTAH


_ JOSEPH COURTNEY EMPEY (‘the Respondent”) and the DIVISION OF
OCCUPATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LICENSING (“the Division”) of the Department

of Commerce of the State of Utah stipulate and agree as follows:

1. The Respondent admits the jurisdiction of the Division over himself and over the

subject matter of this action.

2, The Respondent acknowledges that he enters into this Stipulation and Order

(“Stipulation”) kaowingly and voluntarily,

3, The Respondent understands that he has the right to be represented by counsel in this

matter and his signature below signifies that he hag either congulted with an attorney or that he
waives his right to counsel in this matter.

4, The Respondent understands that he is entitled to a hearing before the State of Utah's
Physician Licensing Board (“Board”), or other Division Presiding Officer, at which time he may
present evidence on his own behalf, call witnesses, and confront adverse witnesses, The
Respondent also understands that by executing this dooument he hereby waives the right toa
hearing and any other rights to which he may be entitled in connection with said heating,
including the right to present evidence on his own behalf, the right to call witnesses, and the right
to confront adverse witnesses. The Respondent understands that by signing this document he
hereby knowingly and intelligently waives the right to all administrative and judicial review as
get forth In Utah Code Arm, §§ 63G-4-301 through, 63G-4-405, and Utah Administrative Code
R1$1-46b-12 through R151-46b-15, The Respondent and the Division hereby express their
intent that this matter be resolved expeditiously through stipulation as contemplated in Utah
Code Ann. § 63G-4-102(4). The Respondent further understands that this Stipulation acts as ade
facto Petition and Notice of Agency Action, and that his decision to enter into a settlement
agreement with the Division, in effect, waives the right to the issuance ofa Petition and s Notice
of Agency Action in this matter.

5. The Respondent acknowledges that this Stipulation, if adopted by the Director of the
Division, will be classified as a public document. The Division may release this Stipulation, and
will release other information about this disciplinary action against the Respondent's licenses, to
other persons and entities,

6, The Respondent admits the following facts are true:

a, On or about November 2, 2004, the Reapondent ~was-first licensed to practice as a

physician and surgeon and to administer and prescribe controlled substances in the
State of Utah.

b. On or about October 2, 2008, following a referral from a retiring family physician, the
Respondent first evaluated John Doe for pain stemming from a sports-related injury. The
patient informed the Respondent of amedical history of taking various pain medications
for many years, including large atounte of oploid medications, The Respondent
presoribed Fenatnyl 50 mg patohes and Noreo 1Omog tablets to John Doe for the

treatment of pain,

e, The Respondent had John Doe enter into a medication management agreement
where the Respondent was to be the sole prescriber of controlled substances and that
any new or uncommon medical condition would be reported. A controlled substance
database report and urine toxicology soreening were also conducted by the Respondent

in his initial evaluation of Joba Dos,

d. In November of 2098, John Doe was seen by the Respondent and reported his

pain was inadequately managed by the current medications. John Doe and the
Respondent agreed to wait to change any medications until December of 2008

because John Doe was going out of town, On December 23, 2008, the Respondent
moet with John Doe, Based on the recommendations of at least two opioid conversion
charts as well as prior package insert information, a pres cription for Methadone 10 mg
tablets, with directions to-take two to three tablets by mouth every four hours as needed
for pain, not to exceed 12 per day, was given, Jobn Doe filled that prescription.

2, On or about Deosmber 26, 2008, Jobn Doe was found deceased at his residence, In
violation of the medication agreement, John Doe had failed to disclose to the Respondent
on December 23, 2008 that he had received drug rehabilitation treatment m1 California in
early December 2008. In addition and unbeknownst to the Respondent, upon completing
the treatment Johu Doe received a prescription for Clonazapam. 2mg tablets #90 from a
California physician. The police investigation of John Doe's death revealed that John
Doe’s long-term girlfriend had recently left him, and that by the time of his death, John
Doe had consumed 13 Methadone tablets and 30 of the Clonazapam tablets.

f. Despite John Doe’s omissions, the Respondent presoribed excessive doses of
Methadone to John Doe om December 23, 2008. The Respondent was also not
informed of an FDA advisory in 2006 that dealt with contraindications related to
prescribing Methadone, Asa result, the Repondent’s negligence was a cause in

John Doe's death.

7, The Respondent admits that his conduct deseribed above is unprofesslonal conduct as defined

jn Utah Code Ann, § 58-1-501(2)(a) and (g) and Utah Admin. Code R154-1-501(6), The
Respondent also admits/agrees that his conduct described above justifies disciplinary action
agalnst his licenses pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 3 §8-1-401(2)(a). The Respondent agrees that
an Order, which constitutes disciplinary action against the Respondent's icense by the Division
pursuant to Utah Administrative Code R156-1-1 02(6) and Utah Code Ann, § 58-1-491(2)(a),
shall be issued in this matter providing for the following action against the Respondent's
licenses:
(a) The Respondent’s licenses to practice as a physician/eurgeon and ta
administer and prescribe controlled substances shall be publicly
reprimanded for the conduct described above.
(b) The Respondent shall successfully complete the PACE (Physician
Assesstnent and Clinfoal Education Propratna) preseribing course
offered through the University of San Diego School of Medicine

within six months of the effective date of this Stipulation. The parties
note that the Respondent has already successfully completed this presari bing

COULSS,

(c) The Resporident will seek peer review when prescribing and using Methadone
for the treatment of pain with bis patients in new or complicated cases.

8, This Stipulation, upon approval by the Director of the Division, shall be the final compromise
and settlement of this non-ctimainal administrative matter, The Respondent acknowledges that
the Director is not required to accept the terms of this Stipulation, and that ifthe Director does
not do so, this Stipulation and the representations contained therein shall be null and void, except
that the Division and the Respondent waive any claim of blas or prejudgment they might have
with regard to the Director by virtue of his having reviewed this Stipulation, and this waiver shall
survive such nullification.

9, The Respondent agrees to abide by and comply with all applicable federsl and state laws,

regulations, rules atid orders related to his practice as a physician and the administering and
prescribing of controlled substances.

10, The Division and the Respondent agree that the language in the Division’s on-line newsletter

regarding this matter shall read:

Cause of Action: The Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct related to a
methadone prescription given to a patient in December of 2008.
Due to a number of complicating factors, inchiding the patient’s
fajlure to disclose detoxification treatment in early December
2008, the patient's failure to disclose the obtalnment of a
benzodiazepine prescription during the same time perlod, and the
Respondent's problematic methadone prescription, the patient was
found deceased at his home on December 26, 2008,

Order: The Respondent was given a public reprimand for the above
conduct, was ordered to attend the PACE (Physician Assessment
and CHnical, Bducation Program) prescribing course offered
through the University of California, San Diego’s School of
Medicine, which he has completed, and was ordered to seek peer
review when prescribing and using methadone for the treatment
of pain with his patients in new ar complicated cases,

Li. This document constitutes the exttire agreement between the parties and supersedes and
eaticels any and all prior negotiations, representations, understandings or agreements hetween. the
parties regarding the subject of this Stipulation, There are no verbal agreements that modify,
interpret, construe or affect this Stipulation.

12. The Respondent understands that the disciplinary action taken by the Division in this
Stipulation may adversely affect amy license that the Respondent may possess in another state or
any application for licensure the Respondent may submit in another state.

13, Ifthe Respondent violates any term or condition of this Stipulation, the Division may take

action against the Respondent, including imposing appropriate sanctions, int the manner provided

by law.
14. The Respondent has read each and every paragraph contained in this Stipulation. He

understands each and every paragraph cottained in this Stipulation, and he has no questions

about any paragraph or provision contained in this Stipulation,

15. The sanctions and penalties in this Stipulation are appropriate for and strictly limited to the

BXYACT FACTS OF THIS CASE because of the pnique nature of this oases.

DIVISION OF OCCUPATIONAL &

PROFESS ee SING
; NY
py SESS rSQ
NOEL TAXIN
Bureau Manager

DAT

ACKNOWLEDGED AND APPROVED:
MARK L, SHURTLEFF
ATTORNEY GENERAL

Dan Law
Counsel for the Division

sare 6128/2

RESPONDENT

BY: VM EA
30 Rp COPRINN EMPE,
Nye Uy 2

DATE:

Peter Stirba

/ ounsel for ne Rep
DATE: y/ [ pase

ondent

#*Division Counsel’s signature above ts also specific verification
that the Respondent has completed the PACE prescribing
course described in provision 7b of this Stipulation and does not

have to take the class again.
ORDER

THE ABOVE STIPULATION AND ORDER, in the matter of TOSEPH COURTNEY
EMPLY, is hereby approved by the Division of Ocoupational and Professional Licensing, and
constitutes my Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law in this matter. The issuance of this
Order is disciplinary actlon pursuant to Utah Administrative Code R1i56-1-102(6) and Utah Code
Aun, § 58+1-401(2)(a). The terms and conditions of the Stipulation are Incorporated herein and

constitute my final Order in this case.

DATED this ___ot2).—_ day of Arngnst 2012.

DIVISION OF OCCUPATIONAL AND
PROFESSIONAL LICENSING

—f
Mark B, Steinagel IN
DOPL Direotor

