OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 13-34161-1
Complaint Against )
FILED
JODI A. PARKS, M.D., ) FEB - 8 2013
Respondent. ) NEMEDIE AL EXAMINERGS
) By: cf.
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Ms. Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and
Michael J. Fischer, M.D., at the time of the authorization of filing this formal Complaint, by and
through Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the
Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Jodi A. Parks, M.D., hereinafter
referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter
630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and
allegations, as follows:

l. Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
August 19, 2008, Respondent’s license to practice medicine is currently in active status, and at all
times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the Board pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the NRS.

2. In March of 2012, Respondent entered into a Consent Order with the Mississippi
State Board of Medical Licensure (see Exhibit 1), which called for Respondent’s medical license
to be placed in a probationary status, with various conditions and restrictions attached thereto.

Ml

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



3, Section 630.301(3) of the NRS provides that any disciplinary action, including
without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the license to practice
any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction, is grounds for disciplinary action.

4. The probationary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Mississippi constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

5. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(3) and is subject
to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this 7" day of February, 2013.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE _ )

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under
penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he
has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this 7" day of February, 2013.

Cheding b. Rebrucly

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 11" day of February 2013; I served a filed copy of the Complaint and Fingerprint information

via USPS e- certified return receipt mail to the following:
Jodi A. Parks, M.D.

18183 Monga Drive
Covington, LA 70433

Dated this 11" day of February, 2013.

hh Tre he

Angélia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT
BEFORE THE MISSISSIPPI STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL LICENSURE
IN THE MATTER OF THE PHYSICIAN'S LICENSE
OF
JODI ALLEN PARKS, M.D.

CONSENT ORDER

WHEREAS, JOD! ALLEN PARKS, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Licensee,”
is the current holder of License Number 20711 issued on June 30, 2009, to practice
medicine in the State of Mississippi;

WHEREAS, the Investigative Staff of the Mississippi State Board of Medical
Licensure, hereinafter referred to as the “Board,” has conducted a comprehensive
investigation into the medical practice of Licensee in Picayune, Mississippi, and fas in
its possession pre-signed prescription blanks and other evidence indicating that Licensee
has violated the Rules and Regulations of the Board, “Pertaining to Prescribing,
Administering, and Dispensing of Medication,” is guilty of unprofessional. conduct, which
includes being guilty of dishonorable conduct likely to deceive, defraud or harm the
public; and has administered, dispensed or prescribed narcofic drugs or other drugs
having addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining fiability otherwise than in the course of
legitimate professional practice;

WHEREAS, on or about November 1, 2011, Licensee signed a voluntary

surrender of controlled substance privileges, thereby relinquishing Licensee's Drug

Enforcement Administration (DEA) Uniform Controlled Substances Registration
Certificate for schedules II, HIN, fl, {IN IV, and V;
WHEREAS, the above enumerated conduct, if established before the Board,

constitutes a violation of the Mississippi Medical Practice Act and specifically,

Subsections (3), (8d) and (13) of Miss. Code Ann. § 73-25-29, and Miss. Code Ann. §
73-25-83(a) for which the Board may revoke the medical license of Licensee, suspend
it for a time deemed proper by the Board, or take any other action as the Board may
deem proper under the circumstances;

WHEREAS, it is the desire of Licensee to avoid a hearing before the Board and,
in lieu thereof, has agreed to enter into this Consent Order subject to the terms,
conditions and restrictions as specified below,

NOW, THEREFORE, the Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure with the
consent of Licensee as signified by her joinder herein, does hereby place Licensee’s
certificate to practice medicine in the State of Mississippi on probation, subject to the
following terms and conditions:

1. Licensee’s medical license (No. 20711) to practice medicine in the State of
Mississippi is hereby placed on probation for a period of one (1) year. At the first
available meeting date following expiration of the one (1).year probationary term,
Licensee shall appear before the Board to review her compliance with this Order.

2. During the one (1) year period of probation, Licensee shal! attend and
successfully complete Continuing Medical Education (CME) courses in the

following areas: (i) proper prescribing of controlled substances; (ii) medical ethics;

Parks Connect Order vps

and (iii) proper medical record keeping. The CME courses required herein shall
be American Medical Association (AMA) approved Category | credits. Any credit
received for such courses shail be in addition to the usual forty (40) hours of
Category | credits required by Board regulation. Licensee will be required to be
on-site while taking any and all CME courses, as courses can not be taken on-line
or by other means.

Licensee’s practice of medicine in Mississippi will be restricted to clinical
pathology, including blood banking and/or transfusion medicine only (no.anatomic
pathology).

Licensee shall report in writing to the Board within fifteen (15) days should her
medical license in any state be subject to investigation or disciplinary action.
Licensee’s medical practice shall be subject to periodic surveillance. The Board's
Director, any member of the Board, or Investigator for the Board may perform an
unannounced inspection of any clinic wherein Licensee practices, which may
include a chart review of selected patient files.

Licensee shall obey all federal, state and local laws, and all rules and regulations
governing the practice of medicine.

Should the Board hereafter receive documented evidence of Licensee violating
any of the terms and coriditions of this Consent Order, the Board shall have the
right to summarily suspend Licensee's certificate to practice medicine without a

hearing, provided’ Licensee shall be given an opportunity for a due process

Pasks CongerdOrdap.wpd

hearing on the maiter at the first available regular meeting date following issuance
of the summary suspension.
8. Licensee shall reimburse the Board for all costs incurred in relation to the pending

matter pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 73-25-30, said amount not to exceed

$10,000. Licensee shall be advised of the total assessment by separate written
notification, arid shall fender to the Board a certified check or money order made
payable to the Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure, on or before forty
(40) days from the date the assessment is mailed to Licensee. via U.S. Mail.
This Consent Order shall be subject to approval by the Board, if the Board fails
to approve this Consent Order, in whole or in part, it shall have no force or effect on the
parties. It is further understood and agreed that the purpose of this Consent Order is to
avoid a hearing before. the Board. In this regard, Licensee authorizes the Board to
review and examine any documentary evidence or materialconceming the Licensee prior
to or in conjunction with its consideration of this Consent Order. Should this Consent
Order not be accepted by the Board, it is agreed that presentation to and consideration
of this Consent Order and ottier documents and matters pertaining thereto by the Board
shall not unfairly or illegally prejudice the Board or any of ite members from further
participation in any hearing or other resolution of the proceeding. Licensee undersiands
and expressly acknowledges that this. Gonsent Order, if approved and executed by the
Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure, shall constitute a public record of fhe State
of Mississippi. Licensee further acknowledges that the Board shall provide.a copy of this

Order to, amohg others, the National Practitioner Data Bank. and the U.S. Drug

Parks Consent Orderwpd

Enforcement Administration, andthe Board makes no representation as to action, ifany,
which the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration may take in response to this Order.
Recognizing her right to notice of charges specified against her, to have such

charges adjudicated pursuant to Miss. Code Ann, Section §73-25-27, to be represented

therein by legal counsel of tier choice, and to a final decision rendered upon written
findings of fact and conclusions of law, JODI ALLEN PARKS, M.D., nonetheless, hereby
waives her right to notice and a formal adjudication of charges, thereby placing the above

enumerated terms, conditions and restrictions on her license to practice medicine in the

State of Mississippi.

nd
EXECUTED this the LL '*_ day of March, 2012.

y |
Jodi Allen Parks, M.D.

aR AC
ACCEPTED AND. APPROVED this the an day of March, 2012, by the

Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure.

William S. Mayo, D.O., President

Mississippi State Board of Medical
Licensure

Parks Consent Order.wpd,

