

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

a
In the Matter of Charges and )

) Case No. 13-38510-1
Complaint Against )

) FILED
AMIR R. YAZDANSHENAS, M.D., ) JUN:~7 2013

NEV,
Respondent. ay. MEDIAL EXAMBIERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M_D.,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., by and _ through
Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Amir R. Yazdanshenas, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, Andrea L. Luem, Esq., as
follows:

WHEREAS, on January 30, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the above-
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to
the Medical Practice Act, Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630, to wit: a one-count violation
NRS 630.301(3), i-e., any disciplinary action, including, without limitation, the revocation, suspension,
modification or limitation of a license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction, and a
one-count violation of NRS 630.306(11), i.e., the failure by a licensee to report in writing, within 30
days, any disciplinary action taken against a licensee by another state; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands it, and
has been afforded the opportunity to consult with counsel concerning the nature and significance of the
Complaint, and Respondent fully understands his rights and defenses regarding the Complaint, as well as




the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but not
limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of
witnesses against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to
him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based upon her understanding of the relevant facts and circumstances,
and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all of his rights under the United
States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada
Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a hearing on the charges and a
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he desires to settle and resolve this matter of the
formal Complaint against him by way of and in accordance with this Settlement Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and scheduled, and that the
IC will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms, covenants
and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be
binding and enforceable upon him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below

shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to disqualification of adjudicating



panel members in paragraph number 8, and he will be provided with an opportunity to defend himself
against the charges against her at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws.

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending Complaint and charges brought against him
by the Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, subject to
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act and to
impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel named herein, whom

Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these circumstances, and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly and
intelligently, after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel.

3, Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, voluntarily and intelligently waives all rights arising
under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter
630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to her or that may apply to her in connection with the
proceedings on the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint, the adjudication of the charges
in said Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions, and Respondent agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by the Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with
this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees, and does not contest, that an order may be entered herein by the
Board finding that there is evidence Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: the disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the state of California, as stated in the underlying Complaint, constitutes a

violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3). For this violation, Respondent shall be publicly



reprimanded and fined in the amount of $1,000.00. Additionally, Respondent shall reimburse the Board
the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the current
amount of $908.57, plus any additional costs that may be accrued subsequent in the disposition of this
matter. The aforementioned fine and costs are to be paid to the Board within sixty (60) days of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board. A final accounting of any
additional costs will be provided to Respondent in the entry of the Board’s order relating to the matter.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself,

his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
individual and representative capacities, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits,
debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity,
that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action,
this settlement or its administration.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the
formal Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the
panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants
and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or
opportunity to be heard on her part, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, the allegations in the Complaint, any and
all evidence that may exist in support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent.

7. Effect _of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will enter



an order consistent with the terms noted previously in paragraph number 4, and dismissing the
underlying Complaint.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,

accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that, not
withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad
faith.

9. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and

enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or
tribunal having jurisdiction. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in
additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for violation of an order of the Board
in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Additionally, failure to pay any cost ordered herein may also
result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fee or cost.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

HI]
Hl




action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing

party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

th

Dated this lo day of May, 2013. Dated this F day of May, 2013

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Y + 9844

AndreaL Luem, Esq.
Attorney for Amir R. Yazdanshenas, M.D.

Amir R. Yazdanshenas, M.D.
Respondent

& WY WN



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of June 2013, with the final total amount of

costs due of $908.57.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

