

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


Case No. 13-39730-1

FILED

In the Matter of Charges and )
) JUN - 7 2013

Complaint Against

JOHN BERNARD ABBAGO, C.R.T., NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDIGAL EXAMINERS
By: —

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

Respondent.

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Chairman, Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Member, and
Donna A. Ruthe, Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and_ through,
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
John Bernard Abbago, CRT (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on April 1, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-captioned matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS)
Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630, to wit: Count I, one count of a
practitioner of respiratory care willfully and intentionally making a false or fraudulent statement or
submitting a false document in applying for a license, a violation of NAC 630.540(1); Count I,
one count of engaging in conduct that brings the respiratory care profession into disrepute, a
violation of NAC 630.540(16); Count IH, one count of obtaining, maintaining or renewing or
attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or

Ml



misrepresentation, a violation of NRS 630.304(1); and, Count IV, one count of engaging in any
conduct that is intended to deceive, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(a);

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it and is fully aware concerning his rights and defenses to the formal Complaint, as
well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between him and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but
that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting
duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval of this
Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or
not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, licensed to practice respiratory care in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the MPA
and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented by counsel and wishes to proceed
towards a resolution of this matter, as set forth in this Agreement, without counsel. Respondent
understands and acknowledges that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement. Respondent agrees that if counsel is retained for representation in this matter prior to

entering into this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be informed of such representation prior


to Respondent executing this Agreement. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this
Agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent waives all rights in connection with this

Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding
that Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant
to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA,
NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of
said formal Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this
Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all
tights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of
Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him
or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the formal Complaint filed herein.

4. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an Order finding that
Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
MPA, and agrees that:

a. The Board may find a violation of the MPA against Respondent, to wit:
engaging in conduct which brings the respiratory care profession into disrepute, a violation of
NAC 630.540(16), as set forth in Count II of the formal Complaint;

b. The Board shall order that Respondent’s license to practice respiratory care be
suspended for a period of twenty-four (24) months, said suspension being stayed, and Respondent
placed on probation for a period of twenty-four (24) months, beginning on June 7, 2013, subject to

HH


all of the terms and conditions of this Settlement Agreement. Thus, the end date of Respondent’s
probation is June 7, 2015;

C. Respondent shall receive a public reprimand;

d. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the Board the sum of
$717.03, the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this
matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the
Board within thirty (30) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

e. Respondent shall perform fifty (50) hours of community service in a
medically related field within one (1) year of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

f. Counts I, III and IV shall be dismissed; and,

g. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part, or on the part of his

counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such


contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related
to the formal Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel
agree that Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and if
requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its counsel.

7. Effect_of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case
be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 4.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to the efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9, Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.



11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice respiratory care
in the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this A” day of Dbz , 2013. Dated this 2Z dayof “Vay, _, 2013.
LAL

Attorney for the Investigative Committee Responden

Subscribed and sworn to before me

J
this J" day of Moy 2013.

ise Las

Notary Public

. BRIAN BENJAMIN

iq Notary Public State of Nevada
No. 11-4575-1

My Appt. Exp. April 22, 2015

ONE IPAS INI PROD

Druk cl bal lef vad Bs
FIT TTT


RR WY WN



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of June 2013, with the final total amount of

TCs

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

costs due of $717.03.

