


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and Case No. 08-11856-1

Complaint Against

eneme” “tome! “ange “nee” “uae! “Tome” Sanaa! “ume “temo”

FILED
NAVNEET SHARDA, M.D.,
JUL 09 2019
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision before the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter “Board,” on Friday, March 5, 2010 at the
Board’s offices located at 1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301, Reno, Nevada, 89502, and by
video conference at the offices of the Nevada State Board of Dental Examiners located
at 6010 S. Rainbow Boulevard, Building A, Suite 1, Las Vegas, Nevada 89118, on the
Complaint filed herein. Respondent Navneet Sharda, M.D., hereinafter “Respondent,”
was present at the meeting in Las Vegas with his attorney, Jacob Hafter, Esq.

The matter came on regularly for reconsideration before the Board on
Friday, June 11, 2010, at the Board’s offices in Reno, and by video conference to the
offices of the Nevada State Board of Dental Examiners in Las Vegas. Respondent was
present at the meeting at the Las Vegas location with his attorney, Jacob Hafter, Esq.

The members of the Board participating on both dates in the decision were:
Charles N. Held, M.D.; Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D.; Ms. Renee West; Javaid Anwar,
M.D.; Mr. Van V. Heffner; Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.; Michael Fischer, M.D.; and
Ms. Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF. Beverly Neyland, M.D. was absent during the
March 5, 2010 meeting, and thus did not participate in the adjudication of the matter,

and accordingly did not participate in the reconsideration of the matter. Nancy Savage,




Senior Deputy Attorney General, acted as legal counsel to the Board at the June 11,
2010 meeting.

The Board, having received and read the Amended Complaint and exhibits
admitted in the matter, the Synopsis of Record prepared by the hearing officer who
presided over the hearing and the transcript of the hearing, as well as the materials
previously provided by Respondent regarding his request for reconsideration of the
Board’s adjudication in March 2010, proceeded to make a decision pursuant to the
provisions of NRS Chapters 233B and 630.

The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being
fully advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER in this matter as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
l.

Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada at all
relevant times.

ll.

On October 9, 2008, the Investigative Committee filed the Complaint in this
matter alleging violations of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. An Amended
Complaint was subsequently filed on October 17, 2008.

lil.

On October 26, 2009, a hearing was held before an appointed hearing officer on
the allegations contained within the Amended Complaint. Respondent was present
without counsel. The Investigative Committee was represented by Lyn E. Beggs, Esq.
At the time of hearing, counts VI and VIII were dismissed.

IV.

Patient A was a_ seventy-four-year-old female who underwent a double

mastectomy in August 2002 and subsequently saw Respondent for radiation therapy,

which began in September 2002 and was completed in November 2002.



Patient B, a sixty-three-year-old female, began to see Respondent in 2004 for
follow-up care for a previous left mastectomy for left breast cancer. In July 2004,
Patient B reported lower back pain and for the next several months underwent multiple
diagnostic studies.

In December 2004, Patient B underwent a CT scan which indicated biapical
pleural and parenchymal disease and some focal nodular thickening in the left apex. A
PET scan was then performed which indicated abnormal soft tissue in the lung apices
with abnormal hypermetabolic activity raising a question of carcinoma. These diagnostic
studies were performed at UMC.

It was related to Respondent, by the husband of Patient B, that a biopsy was not
performed at UMC as there were concerns of the procedure being high risk for
Patient B. Respondent reviewed the studies and after Patient B agreed, began radiation
therapy for suspected lung cancer. Radiation therapy was begun without a biopsy being
performed or without any follow up with Patient B’s other health care providers to
determine if a biopsy was possible. Patient B completed radiation therapy in May 2005.

Medical records for both Patients A and B appear to be incomplete and lacking in
information regarding the radiation therapy that each received.

V.

The Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence that Respondent violated
NRS 630.301(4) as alleged in Count IV of the Amended Complaint and committed
malpractice as defined in NAC 630.040 when he failed to obtain a biopsy or follow up
with Patient B’s other health care providers to determine if a biopsy was possible prior to
beginning radiation on Patient B for suspected lung cancer.

Vi.

The Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence that Respondent violated

NRS 630.3062(1) as alleged in Count IX of the Amended Complaint as Respondent's

medical records for Patients A and B are lacking in information regarding the radiation




treatment provided to both patients and are lacking in detail regarding the care of each
patient.
Mf
Vu.

If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of

Law, it may be so construed.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent.
I.
Respondent was properly served with notice of the hearing via certified mail at
the address on file with the Board pursuant to NRS and NAC Chapters 630 and
NRS Chapter 233B.
UI.
The Board concludes that that Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(4) and
NRS 630.3062(1) as described above and accordingly is subject to discipline pursuant
to NRS 630.352.
IV.
If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of
Fact, it may be so construed.
ORDER
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good
cause appearing therefore,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:
1. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand.
2. Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses
incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of $19,902.16

within sixty (60) days of the date of the filing of this Order.




3. Counts |, Il, lll, V and VII are dismissed.
Dated this 9th day July, 2010.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

CO pote CS

Charles N. Held, President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

CERTIFICATION

| certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of NAVNEET SHARDA, M.D., Case No. 08-11856-1.

| further certify that CHARLES N. HELD, M.D., is the President of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts
as such; and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said
CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as

Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

“Rone U Let

RENEE WEST
Secretary-Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

