



LAYFE ANTHONY, M.D.,

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


Case No. 09-11193-1

FILED
SEP 17 2010

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDECAL EXAMINERS

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against

Respondent.

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision before the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter “Board,” on Friday, September 10, 2010, at the
Board’s offices located at 1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301, Reno, Nevada, 89502, and by
video conference at the offices of the Nevada State Board of Dental Examiners located
at 6010 S. Rainbow Boulevard, Building A, Suite 1, Las Vegas, Nevada 89118, on the

Complaint filed herein. Respondent Layfe Anthony, M.D., hereinafter “Respondent,” was

not present.

The members of the Board participating in the decision were:
Mr. Van VV. Heffner; Beverly Neyland, M.D.; Michael Fischer, M.D. and
Ms. Donna A. Ruthe. Keith D. Marcher, Senior Deputy Attorney General, acted as legal
counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the Complaint and exhibits admitted in the
matter, as well as the Synopsis of Record prepared by the Hearing Officer who presided
over the hearing and the transcript of the hearing, proceeded to make a decision
pursuant to the provisions of NRS chapters 233B and 630.

The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being

fully advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
AND ORDER in this matter as follows:



FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Respondent held an active license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
between March 3, 2001 and June 29, 2007, and an inactive license since
June 29, 2007.

I.

On December 1, 2009, the Investigative Committee filed the Complaint in this

matter alleging violations of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
I.

On June 15, 2010, a hearing was held before an appointed Hearing Officer on the
allegations contained within the Complaint. Respondent was not present at the hearing
and was not represented by counsel. The Investigative Committee was represented by
Lyn E. Beggs, Esq.

IV.

Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Utah on
September 13, 1994. In April 2001, the state of Utah issued an emergency order
restricting Respondent's license and in August 2001, Utah suspended Respondent's
remaining medical privileges.

In August 2003, Respondent entered into a Stipulation and Order with Utah
staying the suspension of his medical privileges and placing him on probation for five
years. In November 2003, Utah modified the Stipulation and Order, lessening the
restrictions on Respondent's license.

In December 2005, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners filed a formal disciplinary Complaint against Respondent regarding
the suspension of his Utah medical license, his failure to timely report the suspension
and his failure to disclose his suspension or probation on his 2005 Nevada renewal
application. Respondent entered into a settlement agreement with the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners in September 2006 which issued a stayed suspension and



placed him on probation with the condition that he remain in compliance with, and
satisfactorily complete, his Utah probation, among other terms and conditions.

In September 2008, Utah terminated Respondent's probation indicating that he
had unsatisfactorily completed the terms and conditions of his August 2003 Stipulation
and Order. A disciplinary hearing was held in Utah in November 2008, regarding
multiple new allegations. On January 28, 2009, the state of Utah revoked Respondent's
Utah medical license. The revocation was timely reported to the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners.

V.

The Board finds by reliable, probative and substantial evidence that Respondent
violated NRS 630.301(3) as alleged in Count | of the Complaint when Respondent's
license to practice medicine was revoked by the state of Utah on January 28, 2009.

VI. .

If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of
Law, it may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent.
Il.

Respondent was properly served with notice of the hearing via certified mail at
the address on file with the Board pursuant to NRS and NAC chapters 630 and
NRS chapter 233B.

lil.

The Board concludes that Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(3) as described

above and accordingly is subject to discipline pursuant to NRS 630.352.
IV.
lf any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of

Fact, it may be so construed.



ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good

cause appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent's license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada shall be
revoked.
2. Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses

incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of $2,822.83 within
ninety (90) days of the filing of these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

Dated this LeMay of September, 2010.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

e pode Ot _

CHARLES N. HELD, President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

CERTIFICATION

| certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of LAYFE ANTHONY, M.D., Case No. 09-11193-1.

| further certify that CHARLES N. HELD, M.D., is the President of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts
as such; and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said
CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as

Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

{foe _

Valerie J. Clatk BSN, RHU, LUTCF
Secretary-Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


