Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

N



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KARA KK

In The Matter of Charges and ) 04

) Case No. W-22388-1
Complaint Against ) FILED

CARLOS INOCENCIO, M.D., ) SEP 13 2010

) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. Bye Oye NERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed
Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, by
and through Edward Cousineau, Deputy Executive Director for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, and Carlos Inocencio, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, L. Kristopher
Rath, Esq., as follows

WHEREAS, on or about December 23, 2009, the IC of the Board filed a formal complaint
in the above-referenced matter, charging Respondent with violations of Nevada’s Medical Practice
Act (Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statute (NRS) and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)),
to wit: a two-count violation of NRS 630.301(4) and a two-count violation of NAC 630.230(1)(1).

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands the
nature and significance of the Complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice

Act (NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B),

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

S
an
tS
aa
PS 2
Bai
SER
a
Zs
EA
o Sk
REeE~
in 8
om
hae!
hon!

Bm Ww bh



including but not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to
representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the night to
confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and
witnesses on his own behalf, the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to
waive all of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited
to the right to a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order,
and he agrees to settle and resolve this matter of the formal complaint against him by way of, and in
accordance with, this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly
meeting, duly noticed, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but
that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement;
and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board approves
the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s IC; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against him by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the IC hereby
agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject
to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical

Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel named herein,

whom Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these
circumstances, and Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of said
counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, waives all rights
arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with
this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC had a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or more
instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice
Act. All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other
use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding,
state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court, Should the
Board not approve this agreement, Respondent reserves the right to fully defend against the
allegations in the complaint at a formal hearing. Respondent fully reserves his rights to defend
against the allegations in the complaint, should they be raised in any civil suit to which the Board
is not a party.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the

complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


Ne)


finding that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act to wit: that in treating the patients
referenced in the original complaint filed by the IC, Respondent’s associated medical treatment
related to the underlying patients was deficient and in violation of the standards of practice
established in NAC 630.230(1)(1). As a result, Respondent is to be found guilty of two counts of
NRS 630.306(2)(b), that Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, that within one year of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, Respondent shall complete ten (10) hours
of Continuing Medical Education (CME) regarding the subject of controlled substance
prescribing, the content of which are to be approved by the IC Chairman in advance of their
accomplishment and which are to be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly
imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada. That Respondent is
to be fined in the amount of $1,500.00. And that, Respondent shall reimburse the Board the
reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the
current amount of $6,259.23, plus any additional costs that may be accrued subsequent in the
disposition of this matter. The aforementioned fine and costs are to be paid to the Board within
one-hundred and twenty (120) days of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement
by the Board. A final accounting of the additional costs will be provided to Respondent in the
entry of the Board’s Order relating to the matter.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by
the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent
pursuant to the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or
acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.
Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters

concerning this Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint, any and all evidence

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(778) 688-2559



that may exist in support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent.

7. Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available

Agenda of a regularly scheduled and duly noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly
understood that this Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the
recommendation of the IC for acceptance.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order consistent with the terms of paragraph 5
above.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence
of bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that

Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

N



entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The IC hereby
agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the
understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

11. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be

enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

12. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event
either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

13. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

14. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would
then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in
addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the Board in accordance
with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for
monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement, may subject Respondent to civil collection

efforts.

Dated this 29% day of June, 2010.

py: ML) [dah

L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

pl
Dated this # day of. buné, 2010.

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

H/
HH

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



KATIE CHILDS
Notary Public State of Nevado
| _ No. 06-109347-1

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Carlos Inocencio, M.D., Respondent

Dated this 27 day of 9 “re

, 2010.

Signature of Carlos Inocencio, M.D.
subscribed and sworn to before me

this. day of uk _
a ~ \

‘Notary Public =

( f


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 10" day of
September, 2010, with the final total amount of costs due of $6,259.23.

UT edn ___

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

