

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

a
FILED
In The Matter of Charges and ) DEC - 6 2010
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Complaint Against ) By: ERI EXAMINERS
) Case No. 10-11300-1 —
ISMAT CHAUDHERY, M.D., )
Respondent. )

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Chairman, Van V. Heffner, Member, and Beverly Neyland, M.D.,
Member, by and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Deputy General Counsel, and Ismat Chaudhery,
M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on April 15, 2010, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above referenced
matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: multiple counts of
violating the Medical Practice Act arising from and related to the Respondent, on behalf of
Chaudhery Pediatrics, pleading guilty to one count of Submitting False Claims: Medicaid
Fraud, a felony violation of NRS 422.540(1) and the Judgment of Conviction in that matter; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands
the nature and significance of the Complaint and is fully advised concerning her rights and
defenses to the Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that she has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act and after due consideration concedes that she is subject to discipline as

outlined, alleged and set forth in the Complaint; and,




WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between herself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,
covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and,

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the
Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against her without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be
entered herein by the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: one count of violating Nevada Revised
Statute Section 630.301(1) the conviction of a felony relating to the practice of medicine; one
count of violating Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(9) by engaging in conduct that
brings the medical profession into disrepute as set forth in the complaint; and,

It shall be ordered that Respondent be publicly reprimanded and that Respondent shall be
ordered to pay a fine of $10,000.00;

Furthermore, Respondent shall be ordered to reimburse the Board the reasonable costs
and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being
$1,724.02, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs and fines shall be paid
to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within thirty (30) days of the Board’s

acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

aI HD MN


Additionally, it shall be ordered that Respondent attend and participate in 11.75 hours of
CME in medical billing in addition to the annual CME requirement. Respondent's attendance
and participation in the ordered CME is to be accomplished within one (1) year of the entry of
this Agreement, and Respondent is to provide proof of attendance and participation to the Board.

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by Kenneth E. Hogan,

Esq., in this matter. Respondent acknowledges and agrees that she enters into this agreement
knowingly, willingly and intelligently after full consultation with counsel.

4. Waiver _of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that she did consult with
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or
that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed
herein, the defense of said Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and
Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the
complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing
or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is
not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and Respondent shall
have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or

that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding on the Complaint filed herein.



5. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly with the Board
staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made
or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that
Respondent and her counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be


Oo CO SD


null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The Investigative
Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the
complaint with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee
which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents
to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second

Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.




12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, upon receipt of credible information that Respondent has failed to comply with
any term or condition of this Order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend
Respondent’s license unti] Respondent complies with the term or condition. Failure to comply
with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against
Respondent for a violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with NRS §630.3065(2)(a).
Furthermore, any failure to pay any fine, fee, or cost ordered herein will also result in such legal

action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

Dated this Jk bay tha 4y_0£2010. Dated this ia * ay of fps v , 2010.

— GLA fhe.

Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq. Kenneth E. Ho , Esq!
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for R ondent
Read and understood by:
py. Ybuuctik
Ismat Chaudhery; Me



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 3" day of

December 2010, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,724.02.

CAO _

Charles N. Held, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

