OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
foaeN caaA Aer en

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against )
) Case No. 10-11856-1
NAVNEET SHARDA, M.D. ) FILED
Respondent. ) OCT 2 5 2010
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEBSCAL EXAMINERS
By: EL ane

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
at the time filing was approved of Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D. and
Ms. Valerie Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, having a reasonable basis to believe that
Navneet Sharda, M.D., hereinafter referred to as Dr. Sharda, has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's
charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Dr. Sharda is currently licensed in active status (License No. 8200), and was
originally licensed on June 10, 1997 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A was a seventy-year old female at the time she first presented to
Dr. Sharda. Her true identity is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her identity is disclosed in
the Patient Designation served on Dr. Sharda along with a copy of this Complaint.

3, Patient A’s medical history includes a left lung thoractomy in 1968 for a benign or
malignant disease; stage II colon cancer for which she underwent surgery in June 2004; and a left
temporal artery biopsy in August 2004 for headaches which was negative. The pathology report
from Patient A’s June 2004 colon cancer surgery reported well to moderately differentiated

adenocarcinoma with transmural penetration, surgical margins free of tumor.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fae cae necen



4. On September 28, 2007, Patient A underwent a brain MRI requested by her primary
care physician as part of a work-up for continued headaches.

5. The MRI reported an “extraaxial lesion anterior left parietal region adjacent to the
midline with a moderate amount of associated vasogenic edema. Given the characteristics, would
favor an extraaxial metastaic lesion over a benign entity such as meningioma. An atypical or
ageressive meningioma is on the differential.” Patient A’s primary care physician referred her to
Dr. Sharda for a radiation oncology consult. The record indicates that a neurosurgery consult was
also sought; however the record is silent as to whether this occurred.

6. Patient A presented to Dr. Sharda on October 5, 2007 for a consultation. Dr. Sharda
performed a PET scan during the appointment which he interpreted as showing two left lung
lesions which were concerning for metastatic disease. Patient A did not report experiencing any
pulmonary symptoms at the time. Dr. Sharda prescribed whole brain radiation therapy for the
suspected brain metastasis noting that the radiation therapy was palliative as well as for control.

7. Patient A underwent another MRI of the brain on October 25, 2007 at the request of
Dr. Sharda. The MRI reported a stable left parietal meningioma. There is no mention in
Dr. Sharda’s medical records for Patient A regarding the findings of the October 25, 2007 brain
MRI.

8. No further workup was completed, nor any other consultations requested prior to
beginning the radiation therapy for the suspected brain metastasis. There is no indication that the
risks, benefits and alternatives of the radiation therapy were discussed with Patient A prior to
radiation beginning. Patient A completed five weeks of radiation therapy for the suspected brain
metastasis on November 5, 2007. The whole brain received 3750 cGy in 15 fractions and a
countdown boost to the gross tumor volume of an additional 1250 cGy resulting in the gross tumor
receiving 5000 cGy in 20 fractions.

9. Subsequent to the radiation therapy for the suspected brain metastasis, radiation
therapy was began for suspected lung cancer. Patient A underwent eight weeks of radiation
therapy which was completed on January 23, 2008, the final dose being 7020 cGy in 39 fractions.

Other than the PET scan performed in October 2007, no further work up was done or referrals

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
fase FOO AR EA

b

N DO Ww


made for consultations or complementary treatments prior to beginning radiation therapy for the
suspected lung cancer. The risks, benefits and alternatives of the radiation therapy were not
discussed with Patient A prior to beginning the radiation therapy.

10. January 15, 2008, Patient A underwent another MRI of the brain which noted no
significant change from the MRI of October 25, 2007 with the exception of the amount of
vasogenic edema underlying the brain nodule being slightly worse.

11. In January 2008, Patient A underwent MRIs of both lumbar and thoracic regions
due to back pain. The thoracic MRI indicated multiple Tarlov cysts and no evidence of metastatic
disease. The lumbar MRI indicated an enhancing sacral mass suspected to be a bone metastasis or
bone tumor. Dr. Sharda’s records indicate that palliative radiation to the sacrum was planned but
no further records exist to show whether radiation therapy occurred. Subsequent studies and
follow-up of Patient A showed no signs of metastatic disease.

12. In February 2008, Patient A was seen by a neurosurgeon after being referred for a
consultation for possible resection of the brain tumor due to recurring headaches. The
neurosurgeon suspected a meningioma. The tumor was ultimately removed in December 2008
and pathology reports indicated that it was indeed a meningioma.

13. No evidence of metastatic lung cancer is seen in subsequent examinations and
imaging of Patient A. She was treated in 2008 by a pulmonologist who diagnosed and treated her
for bronchiectoasis and COPD.

14. Dr. Sharda’s medical records for Patient A fail to provide complete and accurate
information regarding the medical treatment provided to her, any discussions regarding risks,
benefits or alternatives of radiation therapy or acknowledgment of further diagnostic studies.

Count I

15. | Nevada Administrative Code section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances.

16. Nevada Revised Statutes section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds

for initiating discipline against a licensee.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(79FPN SON APE

wm

NSN DD


17. Dr. Sharda committed malpractice when he proceeded with radiation therapy
without any further work-up of Patient A’s condition, with the exception of a PET scan, no
apparent consideration of the type of colon cancer she had had, and no alternative treatments were
considered. Further, Dr. Sharda failed to discuss with Patient A the risks, benefits and alternatives
associated with proceeding with five weeks of radiation therapy for the mass, which ultimately
was determined to be a benign meningioma. Accordingly, Dr. Sharda is in violation of NRS
630.301(A4).

18. By reason of the foregoing, Dr. Sharda is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

Count I

19. | Nevada Administrative Code section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances.

20. Nevada Revised Statutes section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

21. Dr. Sharda committed malpractice when he proceeded to treat Patient A with an
overly long period of radiation therapy for suspected lung cancer without any further workup of
her condition or apparent consideration of her prior pulmonary medical history. Further,
Dr. Sharda failed to discuss any risks, benefits or alternatives associated with the radiation therapy.
Accordingly, Dr. Sharda is in violation of NRS 630.301(4).

22. By reason of the foregoing, Dr. Sharda is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

Count Ul

23. Nevada Revised Statute section 630.3062(1) provides that failure to maintain
timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of a patient is grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

24. Dr. Sharda’s records for Patient A are lacking information regarding the medical

treatment provided to her, any discussions regarding risks, benefits or alternatives of radiation

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

faae\ ron area

N DW Wf

oo


therapy or acknowledgment of further diagnostic studies and are not complete and accurate
records of the care received by Patient A by Dr. Sharda and accordingly he is in violation
NRS 630.3062(1).

25. By reason of the foregoing, Dr. Sharda is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Dr. Sharda notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in Section 630.339 of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of service
of the Complaint.

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical
Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Dr. Sharda; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Dr. Sharda its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this PS day of October, 2010.
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

B

yn E. Beggs, Esql 5 u
General Counsel and“Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(aR ran Area

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS ) *

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under
penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he
has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the

investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in

the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this 2S” “day of Cletode, 2010.

CARO,

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 1“ day of December 2010; I served a file copy of the Complaint, Patient Designation,

along with Fingerprint Information by mailing via certified return receipt to the following:

Jacob Hafter, Esq.

Law Offices of Jacob Hafter & Associates
7201 Lake Mead Blvd., Ste. 210

Las Vegas, NV 89128

Dated this 1** day of December 2010.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

