No



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against Case No. 10-19294-1
JAMES SOMERS, P.A.-C,

FILED

Respondent.
JUL 07 2010
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
COMPLAINT MEDICAL EXAMINERS

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the state of Nevada,
composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Theodore B. Berndt, M.D. Member, and Valerie Clark,
Member, by and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that James Somers, P.A.-C, hereinafter
referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal
Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent’s license is currently in active status (License No. PA658) and was so
licensed at all times herein and was licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on
August 17, 2000 pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A was a fifty-two year old male at the time of the matters in question. His true
identity is not disclosed to protect his privacy, but his identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation
served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On October 6, 2003, Patient A was first seen by Respondent. Respondent had already
undergone previous treatment and two (2) weeks of antibiotics from a previous provider for an infection
of the third left finger. Despite the failure of the antibiotic regimen to clear up the infection,
Respondent placed Patient A on antibiotics for another month.


i)



4, Patient A returned in November 2003. Although the finger was reported as much better,
Respondent recommended continuous soaking and to return for a re-check. This was a red flag because
Patient A had been over six (6) weeks on antibiotics without full resolution of the infection.

5. Patient A returned in January 2004. The finger was still hurting him. Respondent
recommended initiating antifungal therapy at this point because the antibiotics had failed. Even though
this was the third time for Respondent to see Patient A, no consultation with the supervising physician
was sought, no referral was made, no testing such as a culture was done and no imaging studies were
ordered.

6. The infection had been present for over four (4) months. Since Respondent was unsure
of the etiology of the infection, he should have referred Patient A to specialty care, ordered an X-ray of
the finger or other imaging study, or consulted with his supervising physician.

7. Patient A finally returned in May 2004. An X-ray was performed on May 7, 2004 that
showed an ungual tuft resorption of the distal phalanx of the left third digit. A three-phase bone scan
was performed on May 18, 2004 that showed osteomyelitis of the distal phalanx of the left third digit.

Count I

8. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

9. Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.380(1)(f) provides that disciplinary action may
be taken against a physician assistant if they are found to have committed malpractice.

10. Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure, in
treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.

11. | Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
the same or similar circumstances when he failed to refer Patient A to specialty care, failed to order an
X-ray or other imaging study of the finger in a timely manner and/or failed to consult with the
supervising physician in this matter.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.410 of the Nevada Administrative Code.




WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set
forth in Section 630.339 of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of service of the
Complaint.

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a formal
hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS §630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice
Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further action as
may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this 7"day of Zor ley , 2010.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:_ <2
Bradley O. Van Ry
Deputy General Counsel for the Investigative Committee of the Nevada

State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has
read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered during the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, that he believes the allegations and charges in the

foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

ar

Hy
DATED this 7” “day of Tuy 2010.

Cpe CN

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 7" day of July 2010; I served a file copy of the Complaint, Patient Designation and

Fingerprint Information by mailing via USPS certified return receipt mail to the following:

James Somers, P.A.-C.
3315 E. Russell Rd Ste A-4 #410
Las Vegas, NV 89120

Dated this 7™ day of July 2010.

Vr

Angelfa L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

