B 10
Eg ou
Z a2 ah
Boo 16
Be 17

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kRREKSE

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against
Case No. 10-19389-1

FILED

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By 2 a eer

LORRAINE CHUN, M.D.

Respondent.

Nee” “ene “wee nee “ee” Nee ee See”

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
at the time filing was approved of Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Mr. Van Heffner and
Beverly Neyland, M.D., having a reasonable basis to believe that Lorraine Chun, M.D., hereinafter
referred to as Dr. Chun, has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal

Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:


1. Dr. Chun is currently licensed in active status (License No. 9516), and was originally
licensed on July 20, 2000 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to th¢
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A was an eighteen year-old female, pregnant with her first child, at the time
she first presented to Dr. Chun. Her true identify is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her
identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation served on Dr. Chun along with a copy of this
Complaint.

3. Patient A presented to Renown Medical Center on February 12, 2007 at
approximately 1900 for a full term delivery. Patient A had received prenatal care throughout her
pregnancy with the exception of the final month of her pregnancy. She was approximately 6(
inches tall and had gained fifty pounds during her pregnancy. Upon admission she was dilated to 7

cm and quickly progressed to 9 cm after her membranes spontaneously ruptured. The fetal heart

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

foe ran Area

il

rate was in the 150 beats per minute (BPM) range at this time and was reactive. Patient A was
contracting every two minutes.

4, Dr. Chun was called by nursing staff at 1930 and provided orders and Patient A
was subsequently admitted.

5. At 2102 Patient A received an intrathecal for analgesia. Shortly after Patient A
received the intrathecal, the fetal heart rate decreased into the 90 BPM range. Dr. Chun was called
at this time and saw Patient A for the first time in person at 2121.

6. Patient A was given a fluid bolus, was placed on oxygen and a fetal scalp electrode
was placed. Terbutaline was administered to Patient A for a tetanic contraction. The fetal heart
rate became tachycardiac, rising into the 180 BPM range. Patient A was completed dilated. Fetal
weight was estimated at 3700 grams by Leopold’s maneuver.

7. Dr. Chun left the room eleven minutes after arriving to perform an emergency
cesarean section on another patient but returned approximately fifteen minutes later to Patient A’s
room. The fetus had a non-reassuring heart rate at this time.

8. Dr. Chun attempted a vaginal delivery with vacuum assistance, but after three
popoffs and inability to push on the part of Patient A, the vaginal delivery was abandoned after
approximately twenty-six minutes.

9. Dr. Chun again left the room to perform another emergency cesarean section and
instructed that Patient A could continue to labor. She returned approximately twenty five minutes
later to find that the fetal heart rate remained tachycardiac and Patient A was crowning. A vaginal
delivery was again attempted with vacuum assistance.

10. The head was delivered, however a tight nuchal cord was encountered as well as
severe should dystocia. The nuchal cord was not able to be loosened.

11. Dr. Chun called for assistance to attempt to deliver the baby but delivery of the
shoulders was not possible. A Zavanelli maneuver was attempted and Patient A was taken for an
emergent cesarean section.

12. The baby was delivered but died shortly thereafter from hypoxia.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fraeN can ner


Count I

13. | Nevada Administrative Code section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances.

14. Nevada Revised Statutes section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

15. Dr. Chun committed malpractice when treating Patient A when she failed to
properly evaluate Patient A for possible macrosomia due to Patient A’s size and the relative size of
the fetus; when she failed to recognize the potential and risk for dystocia; when she failed to
manage a failed vaginal delivery with a cesarean section and left Patient A without obstetrical care
for over twenty-five minutes after the failed vaginal delivery; and when she failed to factor in the
non-reassuring fetal heart rate in performing a timely cesarean section.

16. By reason of the foregoing, Dr. Chun is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Dr. Chun notice of the
charges herein against her and give her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in Section 630.339 of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of service
of the Complaint.

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical
Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Dr. Chun; and

4. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Dr. Chun its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and

HI!

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(9 N CAR Are A



5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further

action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this ad a day of November, 2010.

THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

/ Lyn E>Beggs E34. 0

General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative Committee

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF CLARK ) -

BENJAMIN J. RODRIGEUZ, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states
under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein;
that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the
course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations

and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this 2% day of “Floma4., 2010.

G[tsn—_

BENJAMIN J. RODRIGUEZ, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 2" day of November 2010; I served a file copy of the Complaint, Patient Designation,
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement along with Fingerprint Information by mailing via

certified return receipt to the following:
Lorraine Chun, M.D.

247 Amber Circle
Warrenton, VA 20186

Dated this 2"° day of November 2010.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

