OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

faeN one Aen


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRAEKRSE

In The Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against )
) Case No. 10-28324-1
ERIC S. BRECHER, M.D., )
) FILED
Respondent.
P SEP - 7 2010

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

COMPLAINT By: Atnanee

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
at the time filing of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Member, and
Valerie J. Clark, Member, by and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Deputy General Counsel, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Eric S. Brecher, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent”, has
violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the
Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1, Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. SP024), and has been
so licensed since February 18, 2004 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent is currently licensed to practice medicine, and was so licensed at the
time of the incident complained of in this matter, in the state of Colorado.

3. On January 21, 2010, the Colorado Board of Medical Examiners, Inquiry Panel B,
issued a public letter of admonition against Respondent. See Exhibit 1.

Count I

4, All of the above allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if
fully set forth herein.
Mf

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

fate can area

N



5. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action,
including, without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to
practice any type of medicine, taken by another state is grounds for initiating discipline against a
licensee.

6. The disciplinary action, issuance of a public letter of admonition by the Colorado
Board of Medical Examiners, related to Respondent's license to practice medicine in the state of
Colorado and therefore constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS §630.301(3).

7. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in Section 630.339 of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of service
of the Complaint.

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS §630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical
Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this 7 Fay of September, 2010.

ARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Deputy General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(EN PAD Aen

i)



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the Respondent
herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered
during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, that he believes the
allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and

correct.

Dated this van day of September, 2010.

C pete

Charles N. Held, M.D.

Bill Ritter, Jr.
Governor

D, Rico Munn
Executive
Director

» ra Division of Registrations State Board of Medical Examine
pat Rosemary McCool Cheryl Hara
7 | Director Program Director

Department of Regulatory Agencies
VIA CERTIFIED MAIL

eS Neel

January 21, 2010
Case No. 2009-002436-B RECEIVED
MAY 07 2010

STATE BOARD OF
MEN eDIOAL EXAMINERS

Eric S, Brecher, M.D.

Dear Dr. Brecher:

f the Colorado Board of Medical Examiners has concluded its inquiry regarding
your role in the care and treatment of L.H. It was the Panel's decision not to commence with
formal proceedings against your license to practice medicine. However, the Panel did vote to
administer disciplinary action to you in the form of this letter of admonition.

Inquiry Panel Bo

After careful review of all the information gathered in this case, the Panel found that the
ent rendered to this patient was below the standard of care. Specifically, given the explicit

treatm
est pain just below the scapula, your examination should have

history of posterior right sided ch
detected the mass.

By this letter, the Panel hereby admonishes you and cautions you that complaints disclosing any
repetition of such practice may lead to the commencement of formal disciplinary proceedings
against your license to practice medicine, wherein this letter of admonition may be entered into

evidence as aggravation.

You are advised that it is your right to have this case reviewed in an administrative proceeding.
Ta do so, you must submit a written request within twenty (20) days after receipt of this letter. In
your request, you must clearly ask that formal disciplinary proceedings be initiated against you to
adjudicate the propriety of the conduct upon which this letter of admonition is based. If such
request is timely made, this letter of admonition will be deemed vacated, and the matter will be
processed by means of a formal complaint and hearing. This is in accordance with the provisions
of the Medical Practice Act governing the discipline of licensed physicians.

Sincerely,

FOR THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

INQUIRY PANEL B

Mark C\ Watts, M.D.
Chair

MCW/mss
Cc: Michael W. Jones, Esq.

1560 Broadway, Suite 1350 Denver, Calorado 80202 Phone 303.894.7690 Consumer Protection

Fax 303.894.7692 www.dora.state.co.us V/TDD 711

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

aN



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 7” day of September 2010; I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT and SETTLEMENT
WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT along with Fingerprint Information by mailing via

USPS certified return receipt to the following:

Eric S. Brecher, M.D.
c/o Amy Welsh

241 West Market Street
Marietta, PA 17547

Dated this 7" day of September 2010.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

