

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kKeREEKSE

In The Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against )
) Case No. 10-6159-1
JAMES LEE UNGER, M.D., ) FT LED
Respondent. ) DEC - 6 2010
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

ME

CAL EXAMINERS
By:

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Member, and
Valerie J. Clark, Member, by and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Deputy General Counsel, and
James Lee Unger, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on June 3, 2010, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above referenced
matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: failing to use the
reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under the same or similar circumstances
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(4) and Nevada Administrative Code
Section 630.040; and,

WHEREAS, the parties agree that a First Amended Complaint shall be filed in this matter
by the IC immediately upon receipt by the Board of an executed original of this Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges below that he has received and reviewed a draft copy of the First
Amended Complaint prior to its filing with the Board; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent acknowledges that he has received and reviewed a copy of the

First Amended Complaint, understands the nature and significance of the First Amended



Complaint and is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to the First Amended Complaint
as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act and after
due consideration and consultation with his counsel, concedes that his conduct violated Nevada
Revised Statute Section 630.301(4) and Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 as set
forth in count I of the Amended Complaint; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,
covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and,

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the
Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the First Amended Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by
the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act to wit: one count of failing to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge
ordinarily used under the same or similar circumstances pursuant to Nevada Revised Statute
Section 630.301(4) and Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040; and,

It shall be further ordered that Respondent shall pay a fine of $3,000.00. Respondent

shall also be ordered to reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the



investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $2,079.12, along with the
costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs and fines shall be paid to the Nevada State Board
of Medical Examiners within thirty (30) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this
Agreement; and,

Respondent shall receive a public reprimand from the Board concerning the foregoing
matter; and,

Respondent shall be ordered to attend and participate in six (6) credits of CME in risk
management, medical error prevention as chosen by Respondent from the following pre-
approved and agreed upon CME courses, The Patient Safety Imperative- Harvard Medical
School, Joint Commission's Top 10 Sentinel Events: How to Prevent Fatal Errors, Lean Quality
Improvement: A Practical Approach, Medical Error Prevention and Root Cause Analysis- Net
CE, Risk Management- Net CE, Risk Management Rounds: Pathology- MedRisk, and/or any

related CME within one (1) year of the Board's order in this matter in addition to the annual

CME requirement.
2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was at all times mentioned in the First Amended

Complaint filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the
Act.

3. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by John Cotton, Esq. and

Christopher Rigler, Esq. in this matter. Respondent acknowledges and agrees that he enters into
this agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently after full consultation with counsel.

4. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this
Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he did consult with counsel
prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, waives all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of

Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that



may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding regarding the First Amended
Complaint filed herein, the defense of said First Amended Complaint and the adjudication of the
charges in said First Amended Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right
to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall
have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and
NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in
connection with the proceeding on the First Amended Complaint filed herein.

5. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the First Amended Complaint. In the course of seeking Board
approval of this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly
with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it
were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication
may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on
the part of his counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed,
and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters
concerning this Agreement, the First Amended Complaint and the allegations therein, any and
all evidence that may exist in support of the First Amended Complaint, and any and all

information of every nature whatsoever related to the underlying complaint against Respondent.


NO NO HHO NBO NO NY NO NO NO YF F- KF YF YF OE OU SESlllOlUlUr EES|llUl ES


The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that Respondent and his counsel, if any, may
appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed in order to respond to any and
all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative Committee or its counsel at such
meeting.
Ii

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver |
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state
of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or

entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary



action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the First Amended Complaint.
The Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all
claims related to the First Amended Complaint, with the understanding that the final decision
rests with the Board.
If

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee,
which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents
to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, upon receipt of credible information that Respondent has failed to comply with
any term or condition of this Order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend
Respondent’s license until Respondent complies with the term or condition. Failure to comply
with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against
Respondent for a violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Furthermore, any failure to pay any fine, fee, or cost ordered herein will also result in such legal

action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

Dated this A / Y Gay Lt hhz—of 2010. Dated this gh _[ bday of Coke, 2010.

‘John H. Cotton, Esq,

Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Christopher Rigler, Esq.
Attorneys for Respondent



Read and understood by:

By: x lvge—

ames Unger,/M.D.
Respondent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 3 day of

December 2010, with the final total amount of costs due of $2,079.12.


Benjamin J . Rodriguez, M.D., Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

