OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against ) Case No. 10-7510-1
MARK B. KABINS, M.D.
mee ) FILED
Respondent. ) FEB 9 3 2010
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Ms. Valerie J. Clark, BSN,
RHU, LUTCF, by and through Edward Cousineau, General Counsel for the Board and counsel for
the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Mark B. Kabins, M.D.,
hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby
issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as
follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada, and at all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. On March 4, 2009, a United States District Court, District of Nevada, Grand Jury
retumed an eight-count Indictment (See Exhibit 1) against Respondent, charging him with
multiple violations of federal law, including conspiracy, mail fraud and honest services fraud.

3. On November 23, 2009, a Criminal Information (See Exhibit 2) was filed with the
District Court, charging Respondent with one count of Misprision of Felony, a felony violation of
18 United States Code (U.S. C.) § 4.

HII

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



4, On November 23, 2009, a Memorandum of Plea Agreement (See Exhibit 3) was
filed with the District Court in which Respondent agreed to plead guilty to one count of
Misprision of Felony, a violation of 18 U .S. C. § 4. In conjunction with the felony plea,
Respondent agreed to be sentenced to five years probation with a condition of six months home
detention in lieu of imprisonment, to perform two hundred fifty hours of community service, and
to pay three million five hundred thousand dollars in restitution to a patient of Respondent related
to the felony plea.

5. On January 25, 2010, a Judgment in a Criminal Case (See Exhibit 4) was filed with
the District Court, which reflected acceptance by the District Court of Respondent’s guilty plea

relating to the aforementioned Criminal Information and the probationary terms thereto.

COUNT I
6. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in

full.
7. Section 630.301(9) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in conduct

that brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline.

8. Respondent violated Section 630.301(9) when he plead guilty to and was convicted
of Misprision of Felony, a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 4.

COUNT I

9. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in
full.

10. Section 630.301(11)(g) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that conviction of
any offense involving moral turpitude is grounds for disciplinary action.

11. Respondent violated Section 630.301(11)(g) when he plead guilty to and was
convicted of Misprision of Felony, a violation of 18 U.S. C. § 4.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.
/Hf
{ff

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



COUNT I

13. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in
full.

14. Section 630.306(2)(a) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in any
conduct which is intended to deceive is grounds for disciplinary action.

15. Respondent violated Section 630.306(2)(a) when the facts as acknowledged by
Respondent in the previously mentioned Memorandum of Plea Agreement indicate that he knew of
mail or wire fraud committed by others against a former patient of his, and that he concealed
material information about the crime, and that he did not as soon as possible make known the
crime to a proper legal authority.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays that the Board conduct a hearing on the
Complaint herein as provided by statute, find and determine that Respondent has violated one or
more provisions of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), enter findings of fact, conclusions
of law and an order imposing sanctions upon Respondent according to NRS 630.352 and take such
other and further action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this 4 — day of February 2010.

Edward Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Exhibit 1
10|
12|
14):
17!
20):

; DANIEL R. SCHIESS

| 333 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Suite 5000
| Las Vegas, Nevada 89101

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 _ Filed 03/04/09 Page 1 of 8

GREGORY A. BROWER
United States Attorney
STEVEN W. MYHRE

Assistant United States Attorneys
(702) 388-6336

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEVADA

-o0O0-
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ) CRIMINAL INDICTMENT
PLAINTIFF, ) 2:09-cr-_ Fe
VS. ) VIOLATIONS:
MARK B. KABINS, ) 18U.S.C. § 371 - Conspiracy
) 18U.S.C. § § 1341, 1346 - Mail Fraud/
DEFENDANT. ) Honest Services Fraud

18 U.S.C. § 2 - Aiding and Abeitting

THE GRAND JURY CHARGES THAT:

At all times relevant to this Indictment:

Background

1. Defendant MARK B. KABINS was a medica! doctor specializing in
orthopaedic spine surgery.

2. John Thalgott was a medical doctor specializing in orthopaedic spine surgery
and in a partnership with defendant KABINS.

3. Daniel Burkhead was a medical doctor specializing in anesthesiology.

4. Melodie Simon was a patient of defendant KABINS, Dr. Thalgott and Dr.
Burkhead.

' Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 Filed 03/04/09 Page 2 of 8

re a
Oo Nn —

a ee 2
NOD of

oO

oO

hr RD N
pO =| Oo

a a & W


5. Howard Awand was a medical consultant who referred personal injury
patients to doctors and personal injury clients to attorneys in return for payments of money.

6. Melodie Simon became paralyzed following complications that arose out of
routine spine surgery performed by defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott on August 3, 2000.

7, Melodie Simon had a potential medical malpractice claim against defendant
KABINS as a result of his actions and inactions during the course of her care and treatment.

8. Defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott believed that Melodie Simon could sue
them for her injuries.

9. Noel Gage was an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Nevada.

10. In 2001, Melodie Simon hired Noel Gage to represent her in the pursuit of
medical malpractice claims against any medical care providers responsible for her injuries.

11. | Noel Gage owed Melodie Simon the fiduciary duty to represent her in a way
that was honest and free from corruption, self-dealing, deceit, fraud, and undisclosed
conflicts of interest.

12. Defendant KABINS, Noel Gage, Howard Awand and Dr. Thalgott had
mutually beneficial financial arrangements among themselves that conflicted with Melodie
Simon's financial interests in her medical malpractice claims.

The Scheme to Defraud

13. Defendant KABINS and others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, aided
and abetted by each other, devised, intended to devise, and participated in a material
scheme and artifice to defraud and to obtain money and property from Melodie Simon and
Dr. Burkhead through false, fraudulent and material pretenses, representations, promises,
and half-truths, and to deprive Melodie Simon of her intangible right of honest services as

set forth below.
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 Filed 03/04/09 Page 3 of 8

22||

14. | The purpose and object of the scheme and artifice was to prevent Melodie
Simon from suing defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott and thereby protect and conceal the
secret cooperation and financial arrangements that existed among the co-schemers. The
scheme and artifice defrauded Melodie Simon and Dr. Burkhead of money and property and
deprived Melodie Simon of the honest services of Noel Gage.

15. Itwas part of the scheme and artifice that defendant KABINS altered medical
records and created false and fraudulent medical records.

16. It was part of the scheme and artifice that defendant KABINS and Awand
corruptly referred lucrative personal injury cases to Gage to influence him not to sue
defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott and to compensate him for not doing so.

17. It was part of the scheme and artifice that defendant KABINS and Dr.
Thalgott secretly cooperated with Awand and Gage to give false and misleading testimony
during depositions to deceive others into believing that Dr. Burkhead was solely responsible
for al! of Melodie Simon's injuries and that neither defendant KABINS nor Dr. Thalgott was
responsible for any of her injuries.

18. It was part of the scheme and artifice that defendant KABINS and Dr.
Thalgott secretly cooperated with Awand and Gage to obtain false medical evidence against
Dr. Burkhead and others in order to make it appear that Dr. Burkhead and others were solely

responsible for all of Melodie Simon's injuries and that neither defendant KABINS nor Dr.

'. Thalgott was responsible for any of her injuries.

19. ‘It was part of the scheme and artifice that defendant KABINS and the co-
schemers concealed from Melodie Simon and Dr. Burkhead the true nature of the conduct
of defendant KABINS, the true nature of the cause of Melodie Simon's injuries, the viability

of her potential malpractice claims against defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott, and the true

_ nature of the cooperation, agreements and financial arrangements among the co-schemers.
19/)

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 _ Filed 03/04/09 Page 4 of 8

20. ‘It was part of the scheme and artifice that Gage sued Dr. Burkhead and
others for Melodie Simon's injuries but did not sue defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott, and

| did, thereby, protect, conceal, and advance the financial arrangements and secret

| agreements that existed among the co-schemers.

21. ‘It was part of the scheme and artifice that defendant KABINS and others
caused Dr. Burkhead and his malpractice insurer to settle the lawsuit brought against him,
knowing that, as a result, Dr. Burkhead would have to pay higher insurance premiums in the

future.

COUNT ONE
Conspiracy
(Title 18, United States Code, Section 371)
22. The Grand Jury incorporates paragraphs 1 through 21 as paragraph 22 of
this Indictment as though set forth fully herein.
23. Fromin or about August 2000, to in or about October 2004, in the state and
federal District of Nevada,

MARK B. KABINS,

| defendant herein, did conspire, confederate, and agree with others, known and unknown to

| the Grand Jury, to commit the crime of mail fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States

Code, Sections 1341 and 1346.

The Object of the Conspiracy

24. The object of the conspiracy was to devise, intend to devise, and participate

| inamaterial scheme and artifice to defraud and for obtaining money and property by means

of false, fraudulent and material pretenses, representations, and promises as to Melodie
Simon and Dr. Burkhead, and to deprive Melodie Simon of her right to the honest services

of her lawyer, Noel Gage, as set forth in paragraphs 1 through 21 of this Indictment.
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 _ Filed 03/04/09 Page 5 of 8

Overt Acts
25. Defendant KABINS and others committed the following overt acts, among
others, in furtherance of the conspiracy.

A. In or about September 2001, defendant KABINS caused Awand to
refer a potentially lucrative medical malpractice case to Gage in order to influence him to not
to sue defendant KABINS and Dr. Thaigott.

B. In or about the fall of 2001, defendant KABINS and Dr. Thalgott
secretly met with Awand and Gage to discuss the Simon case.

C. In or about December 2001, Dr. Thalgott arranged for a doctor known

' to Dr. Thalgott to act as a medical expert in the Simon case.

D. On or about January 1, 2002, Awand wrote a letter to defendant
KABINS wherein he confirmed a secret agreement between Gage, Awand, and defendant
KABINS, asked defendant KABINS to have others contact the expert whom Dr. Thaigott
had located, and discussed payments from KABINS and Thailgott to Awand for providing
them with malpractice protection.

E. In or about January 2002, defendant KABINS caused a report to be
prepared for Gage relating to the medical care and treatment provided to Simon, which
report contained false and fraudulent information.

F. On or about May 15, 2002, defendant KABINS falsely and fraudulently
testified in a civil deposition taken in Simon's case against Dr. Burkhead and others.

G. On or about July 24, 2002, defendant KABINS caused Gage to file a

- complaint with the Southern Nevada Medical Dental Screening Panel fraudulently naming

' Dr. Burkhead as a defendant but not naming defendant KABINS as a defendant.

H. In or about June 2003, defendant KABINS caused Gage to file a
complaint in the Eighth Judicial Court, in for Clark County, State of Nevada, fraudulently

|’ Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 Filed 03/04/09 Page 6 of 8

1|| naming Dr. Burkhead and others as defendants, but not naming defendant KABINS as a |
2 defendant.
3), f. In or about June 2004, defendant KABINS caused Dr. Burkhead and
4|| his malpractice insurer to agree to settle the lawsuit. |
5 | J. In or about October 2004, defendant KABINS caused Dr. Burkhead’s |
6°: malpractice insurer to pay Simon approximately $2,000,000 to settle the suit against Dr. |
7|| Burkhead.
8 K. On or about the dates set forth in Counts Two through Eight below,
9| defendant KABINS caused the mailings described therein to be made.
10! All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. |
11,
: COUNTS TWO THROUGH EIGHT
12), Mail Fraud/Honest Service Fraud
3! (Title 18, United States Code, Section 1341 and 1346) |
14) 26. The Grand Jury incorporates paragraphs 1 through 21 as paragraph 26 of |

15] this Indictment as though set forth fully herein.

16 | 27. Onor about the dates set forth below, in the State and Federal District of
17), Nevada, defendant KABINS, for the purpose of executing the scheme and artifice, and


18, attempting to do so, did knowingly cause to be placed in a post office and authorized |

19|: depository for mail matter to be sent and delivered by the United States Postal Service, and

20]; deposited and caused to be deposited a matter to be sent and delivered by a private and

21:' commercial interstate carrier, and knowingly caused to be delivered by mail and private and

22 | commercial! interstate carrier according to the direction thereon, the following items, with

23! each mailing or delivery constituting a separate count, as enumerated below:
= +
“+ Oo

oo eo
B® N

15)

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 _ Filed 03/04/09 Page 7 of 8

Count

Two

“ Three

Four

| Five

Six

Seven

Date

1/16/04

2/9/04

3/10/04

6/28/04

10/8/04

10/27/04

Description
Pleading, “Order Setting Civil Jury Trial,” with Certificate of

Mailing signed by “Joyce Brown-Judicial Secretary.”

Letter from Wm. Killip (attorney for Dr. Burkhead) to Dave
Reeter, Interstate Insurance Group, Chicago, Illinois, enclosing
copy of “Court’s Order Setting Civil Jury Trial. Notation: “Via
facsimile and First Class Mail.”

Letter from Wm. Killip to Dave Reeter, Interstate Insurance
Group, Chicago, Illinois, recommending settlement. Notation:
‘Via facsimile and First Class Mail.”

Letter from Wm. Killip to Gary L. Myers, enclosing settlement
agreement and release.

Letter from Wm. Killip to Dr. Burkhead, enclosing settlement
agreement and release.

Pleading, "Notice of Entry of Order Granting Dismissai with
Prejudice” in Simon v. Burkhead with Certificate of Mailing

signed by Killip employee Sandi Rich.
, Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 369 Filed 03/04/09 Page 8 of 8



10!
Ww
13'

i
i

14,


18:

20:

22):



24;

| Count Date Description
; Eight 10/28/04 Letter from Wm. Killip to Dave Reeter, Interstate Insurance |
Group, Chicago, Illinois, enclosing "Notice of Entry of Order” |
and “Stipulation for Dismissal With Prejudice and Order.”
All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1341, 1346 and 2.
DATED: this “be day of March 2009.
A TRUE BILL:
IS/
FOREPERSON OF THE GRAND JURY
| GREGORY A. BROWER

' United States Attorney


STEVE . MYHRE
DANIEL R. SCHIESS
Assistant United States Attorneys

Exhibit 2

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 381 Filed 11/23/09 Page 1 of 4

we gener ese tm ethene
Py ~,

20)
22.


26)

I bien b

DANIEL G. BOGDEN NOV 2° 2009 |
United States Attorne |
' DANIEL R. SCHIESS Dip) RICT OF NEVACA
' Assistant United States Attorneys ay DEPLITY
333 Las Vegas Boulevard Sout Yemen me meee
Suite 5000

Las Vegas, Nevada 89101
(702) 388-6336

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEVADA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Plaintiff, 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL

vs.
CRIMINAL INFORMATION

MARK B. KABINS,
Defendant.

The United States Attorney charges:

MISPRISION OF FELONY
18US.C. 84

l. From in or about 2001, to in or about July 2002, in the State and

Federal District of Nevada,
MARK B. KABINS,

defendant herein, having knowledge of the actual commission of a felony
cognizable by a court of the United States, did conceal and did not as soon as
possible make known the same to some judge or other person in civil or military
authority under the United States.
/ f/f

_

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 381 Filed 11/23/09 Page 2 of 4

2. Defendant Mark B. Kabins was a medical doctor specializing in
orthopedic spine surgery, and practicing in partnership with Dr. John Thalgott,
M.D., in Las Vegas, Nevada.


3 On August 3, 2000, Kabins assisted Thalgott in performing spine

. surgery on a patient named Melodie Simon. Following surgery, Ms. Simon
developed a severe headache, which Thalgott diagnosed as caused by a spinal fluid
leak. Thalgott ordered the placement of a spinal catheter, then left for vacation,
entrusting the postoperative care of Ms. Simon to Kabins. Dr. Daniel Burkhead, an
anesthesiologist, placed the catheter ordered by Thalgott on August 4, 2000, and
removed it on August 6, 2000.

4, Following removal of the catheter and while under the primary care of
Kabins, Ms. Simon experienced further complications that Kabins understood to be
caused by a spinal epidural hematoma, which required surgery. Kabins evacuated
the hematoma on the evening of August 9, 2000. Ms. Simon ultimately was
rendered paraplegic.

5. Kabins knew that medical experts could opine that he fell below the

standard of care by delaying surgery. Additionally, Kabins believed experts could

opine that his failure to timely remove the hematoma contributed to Ms. Simon’s

: permanent injury. Accordingly, Kabins believed that Ms. Simon could bring a

viable lawsuit against him.

6. Eventually Ms, Simon retained attorney Noel Gage to represent her in

: a possible lawsuit against any doctor and/or other health care provider whose

potential negligence arguably caused her injury.
7, Howard Awand was a self-described medical consultant who, at all

relevant times, had an ongoing business and financial relationship with Kabins,

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 381 Filed 11/23/09 Page 3 of 4

1) whereby Kabins received patient referrals from Awand. Kabins knew that Awand,




20!
21);

25 |
26||

a


jn turn referred cases from him and other doctors to certain personal injury lawyers

and that these lawyers made money in contingency fees from the referrals. Kabins

. knew that these referrals could influence the personal injury lawyers’ decisions

about whom to sue and whom not to sue.

8. Kabins asked Awand to intercede with Gage in order to persuade
Gage not to sue him and Thalgott in connection with their treatment of Ms. Simon.
Kabins believed Awand would seek to influence Gage by referring personal injury

cases to him. Awand told Kabins that he would approach Gage.

9. During or after a meeting in the fall of 2001, Gage told Kabins that he |

had obtained an expert who would testify that he and Thalgott had fallen below the
applicable standard of care. This confirmed to Kabins that Gage could bring a
viable medical malpractice lawsuit against them. Nevertheless, neither Kabins nor
Thalgott was sued by Gage on behalf of Ms. Simon. Kabins believed that Gage’s
decision as to whether he and Thalgott would be sued was influenced by Gage’s
financial relationship with Awand arising from Awand’s system of patient/client
referrals. Kabins further believed that he was not sued as a result of Awand’s
relationship with Gage.

10. Kabins understood that Awand had referred personal injury cases to
Gage and believed that the referrals influenced Gage’s decision not to sue him and
Thalgott. Kabins believed that the foregoing created a conflict of interest for Gage,
and Gage concealed this conflict of interest from Ms. Simon.

11. Inor about January 2002, Kabins drafted a “Letter of Complaint” to
help Gage bring a lawsuit against other health care providers who were involved in
the treatment of Ms. Simon. Kabins intentionally omitted from this “Letter of

Complaint” material information about his meeting with Gage and Awand and about


Ne

Ww


Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 381 Filed 11/23/09 Page 4 of 4

Ms. Simon’s condition as it related to the timing of the August 9, 2000 surgery.

' Kabins caused Awand to mail or fax the “Letter of Complaint” from Colorado to

Gage in Nevada. The “Letter of Complaint” constituted an affirmative act of
concealment giving rise to misprision.

12. Based on the foregoing, Kabins knew about the crime of mail or wire
fraud committed by Awand and Gage, that he concealed material information about

the crime, and that he did not as soon as possible make known the crime to a judge

| or other person in civil or military authority under the United States.

13. Allin violation of Title 18 United States Code, Section 4.
DATED /
Assistant United States Attorneys

Exhibit 3
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 1 of 12

aA OWN





DANIEL G. BOGDEN NOV 2 3 2008 \
United States Attorney j
STEVEN W. MYHRE CLERK, US. DISTRICT COURT
DANIEL R. SCHIESS DISTRICT OF NEVADA
Assistant United States Attorneys BY DEPUTY
333 Las Vegas Boulevard South

Suite 5000

Las Vegas, Nevada 89101
(702) 388-6336

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEVADA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Plaintiff, )  2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL
VS. )
) MEMORANDUM OF PLEA
) AGREEMENT
MARK B. KABINS, )
Defendant. )

The United States, by and through Daniel G. Bogden, United States Attorney, and
Steven W. Myhre and Daniel R. Schiess, Assistant United States Attorneys, defendant Mark |
B. Kabins, M.D., and defendant's attorneys, David Z. Chesnoff, Donald M. Ré, John Spilotro,
and Martin G. Weinberg, respectfully submit this Memorandum of Plea Agreement.

I.
PLEA AGREEMENT

The United States and defendant have reached the following plea agreement, which
is binding on the Court under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure11(c){1)(C) in the event
the Court accepts the terms of this agreement as set forth below.
A. The Plea

1. On March 4, 2009, a federal grand jury in Las Vegas returned an eight-count

Indictment against defendant Kabins, charging him with violations of Title 18, United States

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 2 of 12

bm Ww WN


1]




Code, Sections 371 (conspiracy), 1341 (mail fraud) and 1346 (honest services fraud).

2. In return for the mutual promises set forth in detail herein, the parties agree
that the defendant will plead guilty to an Information charging one count of Misprision of
Felony, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 4. Upon acceptance of the plea
under the conditions set forth below and following pronouncement of sentence on the
Misprision offense, the United States will move to dismiss the Indictment against the |
defendant with prejudice.

B. Additional Charges

3. The United States Attorney's Office for the District of Nevada (“United States”)
will bring no additional charge or charges against defendant arising out of the investigation
which culminated in the Indictment, Information, and this Plea Memorandum. The United
States further agrees not to bring any additional charge or charges against the defendant for
any offense that the defendant may have committed on or before the date he signs this plea
agreement and which relate to the defendant's business and practice of medicine, his
treatment of patients, his testimony or participation in legal cases as either a treating
physician or expert witness, or any financial transaction relating to any of the above, expect
for any offense that involves a crime of violence, unlawful distribution of narcotics, or

violations of federal tax laws.

Cc. Binding Recommendati
4. The parties agree that the defendant will be sentenced to five (5) years |
probation that includes a condition of 6 months home detention as a substitute for.
imprisonment. (USSG §5C1.1) The parties also agree that the court will order the defendant :
to perform 250 hours of community service as directed by the Probation Office.
5. The parties agree that the defendant will pay restitution to Melodie Simon in
the amount of $3,500,000 and will receive a waiver of claims from Ms. Simon relating to the

injuries she sustained during her stay at Sunrise Hospital Medical Center from August 3-19, |

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 3 of 12


ok mm
—_—

2000. Defendant agrees to cooperate with the United States Attorney's Office to effect

restitution on or before the date sentence is imposed by the Court.

D. Sentencing Guideline Calculations
6. The following guideline and sentencing provisions would apply:
a. The 2008 version of the Sentencing Guidelines applies;

b. The guideline for Misprision of Felony is USSG §2X4.1, which provides
as follows:

1) The Base Offense Level would be 13. The calculations
supporting this base offense level are as follows: USSG §2X4.1 provides for a base offense
level of “9 levels lower than the offense level for the underlying offense, but in no event less
than 4, or more than 19."

2) The underlying offense level could be 22. The calculations
regarding this underlying offense level are as follows: Pursuant to USSG §2B1.1, the base
offense level is 6 and, if the court finds the loss amount is between $1 million and $2.5
million, the special offense characteristic adjustment would be 16 levels. The parties agree
that the determination of the range is not relevant for purposes of this plea agreement
because the plea agreement binds the sentencing range to a level 10. Nonetheless, the

defendant takes the position that the loss is between $1 million and $2.5 million.

Cc. Adownward adjustment of 2 levels would apply because the defendant
has accepted responsibility (USSG §3E1.1).

d. Based on the foregoing, the adjusted offense level would be 11.

e. The defendant's criminal history category is 1.

f, Notwithstanding these calculations, the binding sentencing

recommendation is based on an offense level 10.
/ id
fd

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 4 of 12

bh WY WN


HH
2]

E. Sentencing Acknowledgments
7. The defendant agrees that the provisions contained in paragraphs 4 and 5

will not bind the Court or the government in the event that, before imposing sentence, the
Court determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the defendant:

a. fails to tell the truth, commits perjury, or obstructs justice in the course
of, or in connection with, any proceeding related to the plea to the offense of conviction or
to the determination and imposition of sentence for the offense of conviction;

b. engages in any criminal misconduct during the pendency of the
resolution of the instant Indictment,

Cc. fails to appear in any hearing ordered by the Court; or

d. violates any terms or conditions of pretrial release.

8. The defendant understands that the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 will bind
the Court only if and when the Court accepts this Plea Memorandum under Federal Rule of
Criminal Procedure 11(c)(3)(A). If the Court does not accept this Plea Memorandum, the
defendant may withdraw his guilty plea, and the provisions of this Plea Memorandum will be
null and void as to both parties.

9. The defendant agrees not to withdraw his plea of guilty in the event that the
Sentencing Guideline calculations set forth above differ from those determined by the Court
at sentencing, subject, however, to the Court imposing a sentence consistent with the
bindings recommendations in paragraphs 4 and 5 above.

F. Other Sentencing Matters

10. Bothdefendant and the United States are free to present any evidence, facts
or information relevant to sentencing to the United States Probation Office, or the Court, or
both.

f/f
f/f]

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 5 of 12


G. Fines and Special Assessment

11. Defendant understands that the Court may impose a fine up to two-hundred |

fifty-thousand dollars ($250,000), due and payable immediately upon sentencing. The
parties are free to argue for or against a fine.

12. Defendant will pay the special assessment of $100 for the count of conviction
at the time of sentencing.
H. Civil Matter

13. The defendant has reached a settlement agreement in the civil matter of
Danie! Burkhead v. Mark Kabins, Eighth Judicial District Court Clark County, Nevada ,Case
No A587768. The parties agree that the defendant will seek a good faith settlement
determination by the Clark County District Court judge presiding over the matter and will
make a good faith effort to obtain the determination as expeditiously as possible. Should the
Eight Judicial District Court not approve the current settlement proposal, the parties agree
that the government will exclude the civil settlement condition from the terms of this
Agreement, and the defendant will, in good faith, continue to attempt to settle the civil matter.

[. Future Proceedings and Waiver of Privilege

14. Upon the entry of his plea as set forth above, the defendant knowingly and |

voluntarily agrees to waive any claim of privilege relating to, and will allow the disclosure of,
any information or communication pertaining to any claim arising from the treatment and care
of Melodie Simon that may be protected by the attorney-client or work product privilege by
virtue of attorney Sherman Mayor's and/or attorney Cheryl Horner's representation of the
defendant. This agreement, and the waiver contained herein, is limited only to those
disclosures made in connection with, and sought by the parties to, the criminal proceedings
pending in federal court involving Howard Awand, Noel Gage, and/or the defendant, and is
not intended to operate as a general waiver of the aforementioned privileges extending to,

or for the benefit of, any third-party, any other proceeding, or any other attorney who has


Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 6 of 12

NO



represented the defendant. The government agrees not to oppose any motion the defendant

may make under Federal Rule of Evidence 502(d), requesting the Court to enter an Order

limiting the waiver as set forth above; however, neither this agreement, nor the waiver ‘

contained herein, is contingent upon the Court entering an Order. The government agrees |
that it will not seek any waiver of the privilege broader than that set forth above except as |

y

provided by law and approved by this Court. :
15. Ifthe Court does not accept this plea agreement and the defendant exercises
his right to withdraw this plea, the government agrees that it will not use the following in any
future legal proceeding: (a) any information it obtains from Sherman Mayor and Cheryl
Horner pursuant to the defendant's waiver as provided in paragraph 14 above; (b) any
information resulting from any settlement or any attempts to settle the Burkhead civil matter;
or {c) any other matter that would be protected by Federal Rule of Evidence 410.
J. Waiver of Appeal
16. Thedefendantis aware that Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742, gives
the defendant a right to appeal from any sentence to be imposed for the offense of
conviction and that other federal statutes give the defendant the right to appeal other aspects
of his conviction. In exchange for concessions made by the United States in this agreement, |
the defendant knowingly and voluntarily waives the following rights:
a. his right to appeal any sentence thatis imposed under the terms of this
Plea Agreement, including his right to appeal the manner in which that sentence was
determined on the grounds set forth in Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742; and any
order of restitution, fine, and community service;
b. his right to appeal any aspect of his convictions, including any pretrial

suppression matters or other pretrial disposition of motions and issues; and

fi

C. his right to bring any collateral attack against his convictions or

6 |
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 7 of 12



sentence, except for a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel.

K. Additional! Promises, Agreements, and Conditions

17. The parties agree that no promises, agreements, and conditions have been ,

entered into other than those set forth in this Plea Memorandum, and not will be entered into
unless in writing and signed by all parties.
L. Limitations

18. This Plea Agreement is limited to the United States Attorney's Office for the
District of Nevada and does not bind any other federal, state or local prosecuting,
administrative, or regulatory authority. However, this Plea Memorandum does not prohibit

the United States through any agency thereof, the United States Attorney's office for the

District of Nevada, or any third-party from initiating or prosecuting any civil proceeding ;

directly or indirectly involving the defendant.
i.
PENALTY

19. The maximum penalty for violating Title 18, United States Code, Section 4,

is a term of imprisonment of not more than three (3) years, or a fine of not more than two-

hundred fifty-thousand dollars ($250,000), or both.

20. The maximum term of probation is five (5) years, during which time the —

defendant will be subject to various restrictions and requirements. Defendant understands |

that if he violates one or more of any conditions of probation imposed, the probationary term
may be revoked and the defendant may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed the statutory maximum term of imprisonment provided for by law.

21. Defendant mustpay a special assessment of $100 for the count of conviction.
/ i

22. Defendant is required to pay for the costs of imprisonment, probation, and

supervised release, unless the defendant establishes that he does not have the ability to pay


Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 8 of 12



MI

such costs, in which case the Court may impose an alternative sanction such as community |

service.
It.
ELEMENTS
23. | The elements for the crime of Misprision of Felony in violation of Title 18,
United States Code, Sections 4, are the following:
First: Defendant had knowledge of the actual commission of a felony
cognizable by a court of the United States; and
Second: Defendant concealed and did not as soon as possible make known
the same to some judge or other person in civil or military authority
under the United States.
IV.
FACTS THAT SUPPORT GUILTY PLEA

24. Defendant is pleading guilty because he is guilty of the charged offense. |
25. _ In pleading to the offense, defendant acknowledges that if he elected to go |
to trial instead of entering this plea, the United States could prove facts sufficient to
establish defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
26. Defendant specifically admits and declares under penalty of perjury that all
of the facts set forth below are true and correct:

a. At all relevant times, defendant Mark B. Kabins was a medical
doctor specializing in orthopedic spine surgery, and practicing in partnership with Dr.
John Thalgott, M.D., in Las Vegas, Nevada.

b. On August 3, 2000, Dr. Kabins assisted Dr. Thalgott in performing

spine surgery on a patient named Melodie Simon. Following surgery, Ms. Simon

developed a severe headache, which Dr. Thalgott diagnosed as caused by a spinal fluid

leak. Dr. Thalgott ordered the placement of a spinal catheter, then left for vacation,

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 9 of 12

& WN


1]


entrusting the postoperative care of Ms. Simon to Dr. Kabins. Dr. Daniel Burkhead, an
anesthesiologist, placed the catheter ordered by Dr. Thalgott on August 4, 2000, and
removed it on August 6, 2000.

Cc. Following removal of the catheter and while under the primary care —

of Dr. Kabins, Ms. Simon experienced further complications that Dr. Kabins understood to
be caused by a spinal epidural hematoma, which required surgery. Dr. Kabins evacuated
the hematoma on the evening of August 9, 2000. Ms. Simon ultimately was rendered
paraplegic.

d. Dr. Kabins knew that medical experts could opine that he fell below
the standard of care by delaying surgery. Additionally, Dr. Kabins believed experts could
opine that his failure to timely remove the hematoma contributed to Ms. Simon's
permanent injury. Accordingly, Dr. Kabins believed that Ms. Simon could bring a viable
lawsuit against him.

e. Eventually Ms. Simon retained attorney Noel Gage to represent her
in a possible lawsuit against any doctor and/or other health care provider whose potential
negligence arguably caused her injury.

f. Howard Awand was a self-described medical consultant who, at all

relevant times, had an ongoing business and financial relationship with Dr. Kabins,

whereby Dr. Kabins received patient referrals from Awand. Dr. Kabins knew that Awand,

in turn referred cases from him and other doctors to certain personal injury lawyers and
that these lawyers made money in contingency fees from the referrals. Dr. Kabins knew
that these referrals could influence the personal injury lawyers’ decisions about whom to
sue and whom not to sue.
iff

g. Dr. Kabins asked Awand to intercede with Gage in order to

persuade Gage not to sue him and Dr. Thalgott in connection with their treatment of Ms.


Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 10 of 12


ION

Simon. Dr. Kabins believed Awand would seek to influence Gage by referring personal
injury cases to him. Awand told Dr. Kabins that he would approach Gage.

h. During or after a meeting in the fall of 2001, Gage told Dr. Kabins
that he had obtained an expert who would testify that he and Dr. Thalgott had fallen
below the applicable standard of care. This confirmed to Dr. Kabins that Gage could
bring a viable medical malpractice lawsuit against them. Nevertheless, neither Dr.
Kabins nor Dr. Thalgott was sued by Gage on behalf of Ms. Simon. Dr. Kabins believed
that Gage’s decision as to whether he and Dr. Thalgott would be sued was influenced by
Gage’s financial relationship with Awand arising from Awand’s system of patient/client

referrals. Dr. Kabins further believed that he was not sued as a result of Awand’s

relationship with Gage.

i. Dr. Kabins understood that Awand had referred personal injury
cases to Gage and believed that the referrals influenced Gage’s decision not to sue him
and Dr. Thalgott. Dr. Kabins believed that the foregoing created a conflict of interest for
Gage, and Gage concealed this conflict of interest from Ms. Simon.

j. Dr. Kabins thereafter drafted a "Letter of Complaint’ to help Gage
bring a lawsuit against other health care providers who were involved in the treatment of
Ms. Simon. Dr. Kabins intentionally omitted from this “Letter of Complaint” material
information about his meeting with Gage and Awand and about Ms. Simon’s condition as |
it related to the timing of the August 9, 2000 surgery. Dr. Kabins caused Awand to mail
or fax the “Letter of Complaint” from Colorado to Gage in Nevada. The “Letter of
Complaint” constituted an affirmative act of concealment giving rise to misprision.

k. Based on the foregoing, Dr. Kabins admits that he knew about the
crime of mail or wire fraud committed by Awand and Gage, that he concealed material
information about the crime, and that he did not as soon as possible make known the

crime to a judge or other person in civil or military authority under the United States.


Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 11 of 12

& W NW



V.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
28. Defendant acknowledges by his signature below that he has read this

Memorandum of Plea Agreement, that he understands the terms and conditions, and the
factual basis, set forth herein, that he has discussed these matters with his attorney, and
that the matters set forth in this Memorandum, including those facts which support a plea
of Guilty. The undersigned defendant acknowledges that he has been advised, and
understands, that by entering a plea of Guilty he is waiving, that is, giving up, certain
rights guaranteed to him by law and by the Constitution of the United States. Specifically,
he is giving up:

a. The right to proceed to trial by jury on the charges in the Indictment,
or to a trial by a judge if he and the United States both agree;

b. The right to confront the witnesses against him at such a trial, and
to cross-examine them;

Cc. The right to remain silent at such trial, with such silence not to be
used against him in any way;

d. The right, should he so choose, to testify in his own behalf at such
a trial;

e. The right to compel witnesses to appear at such a trial, and to
testify in his behalf; and

f. The right to have the assistance of an attorney at all stages of such
proceedings.
fi f
id

29. The undersigned defendant, his attorney, and the attorney for the United

States acknowledge that this Memorandum of Plea Agreement is the entire agreement

1]

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 383 Filed 11/23/09 Page 12 of 12



negotiated by and agreed to by and between the parties, and that no other promise has

been made or implied by either defendant, his attorney, or the attorney for the United

States.

L344

DATED /

/0[Z0foF

DATED

DANIEL G. BOGDEN
United States A

AEN VL

DANIEL R. SCHI ESS
Assistant United States Attorneys

MARK B. KABINS, |

AVID Z. jl ,
DONALD RE’ |

JOHN SPILATRO

MARTIN G. WEINBERG
Attorneys for Defendant Kabins

Exhibit 4
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 458 Filed 01/25/10 Page 1 of 5

AO 245B (Rev, 09/08) Judgment in a Crimina] Case
Sheet 1

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

District of Nevada

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ) JUDGMENT IN A CRIMINAL CASE

v.
MARK B. KABINS )

) Case Number: 2:07-CR-0039-JLQ-LRL
USM Number: 43751-048
) David Chesnoff, Donald Re, Martin Weinberg,

John Spilotro
Defendant's Attorney

THE DEFENDANT:

X pleaded guilty to count(s) 1 of the Information

(] pleaded nolo contendere to count(s)

which was accepted by the court.

C] was found guilty on count(s)
after a plea of not guilty.

The defendant is adjudicated guilty of these offenses:

Title & Section Nature of Offense Offense Ended Count
18USC§4 Misprision of Felony July 2002 |
The defendant is sentenced as provided in pages 2 through a) of this judgment. The sentence is imposed pursuant to

the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984.
(J The defendant has been found not guilty on count(s)

X Count(s) ALL REMAINING UO is X are dismissed on the motion of the United States.

It is ordered that the defendant must notify the United States attorney fur this district within 30 days of any change of name, residence,
or mailing address until all fines, restitution, costs, and special assessments imposed by this judgment are fully paid. If ordered to pay restitution,
the defendant must notify the court and United States attorney of material changes in economic circumstances.

January 14, 2010

ef iposilion of Judgment

Signatuj® of Judge

SENIOR, JUDGE JUSTIN L. QUACKENBUSH
Name and Title of Judge

Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 458 Filed 01/25/10 Page 2 of 5

AO 245B (Rev. 09/08) Judgment in a Criminal Case
Sheet 4 Probation

Judgment Page 2 of 5
DEFENDANT: MARK B. KABINS
CASE NUMBER: 2:07-CR-0039-JLQ-LRL
PROBATION
The defendant is hereby sentenced to probation for a term of: 5 Years

The defendant shall not commit another federal, state or local crime.

The defendant shali not unlawfully possess a controlled substance. The defendant shall refrain from any unlawful use of a controlled
substance. The defendant shall submit to one drug test within 15 days of placement on probation and at least two periodic drug tests
thereafter, as determined by the court, not to exceed 104 tests annually, Revocation is mandatory for refusal to comply.

X = The above drug testing condition is suspended, based on the court’s determination that the defendant poses a low risk of
future substance abuse. (Check, if applicable.)

(0 The defendant shall not possess a firearm, ammunition, destructive device, or any other dangerous weapon. (Check, yf upplicuble )

X ~The defendant shall cooperate in the collection of DNA as directed by the probation officer, (Check. tf applicable.)

(2 The defendant shall comply with the requirements of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C. § 16901, ef seg.)
as directed by the probation officer, the Bureau of Prisons, or any state scx offender registration agency in which he or she resides,
works, is a student, or was convicted of a qualifying offense, (Check, if upplicuble.)

{1 The defendant shall participate in an approved program for domestic violence. (Check, if applicable)

If this judgment imposes a fine or restitution, it is a condition of probation that the defendant pay in accordance with the Schedule of
Payments sheet of this judgment.

The defendant must comply with the standard conditions that have been adopted by this court as well as with any additional conditions

on the attached page.

2) the defendant shall report to the probation officer and shall submit a truthful and complete written report within the first five days of
each month;

STANDARD CONDITIONS OF SUPERVISION

3) the defendant shal! answer truthfully all inquiries by the probation officer and follow the instructions of the probation officer,
4) the defendant shall support his or her dependents and meet other family responsibilities;

5) the defendant shall work regularly at a lawful occupation, unless excused by the probation officer for schooling, training, or other
acceptable reasons;

6) the defendant shall notify the probation officer at least ten days prior to any change in residence or cmployment;

7)

8)

9) the defendant shall not associate with any persons engaged in criminaLactiyity
felany, unless isst : ; Lf
( “-7 Lan,

10) the defendant shall permit a probation officer to visit him or her at any time at home or elsewhere and shall permu c
contraband observed in plain view of the probation officer;

fiscation of any

11) the defendant shall notify the probation officer within seventy-two hours of being arrested or questioned by a law enforcement officer;

12) the defendant shall not enter into any agreement to act as an informer or a special agent of a law enforcement agency without the
permission of the court; and

13) as directed by the probation officer, the defendant shall notify third partics of risks that may be occasioned by the defendant's criminal
record or persona! history or characteristics and shall permit the probation officer to make such notifications and to confirm the
defendant’s compliance with such notification requirement,
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 458 Filed 01/25/10 Page 3 of 5

AO 245B (Rev. 09/08) Judgment in a Criminal Case
Sheet 4C --- Probation

Judgment Page 3 of 5
DEFENDANT: MARK B. XABINS
CASE NUMBER; — 2:07-CR-0039-ILQ-LRL

SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF SUPERVISION

1. The defendant shall be confined to home confinement without clectronic monitoring, for a period of 6 months.

2. The defendant during Home Confinement shall be at his residence between the hours of 9:00 pm - 6:00 am
(except for religious/medical/school activities). The defendant may travel to Utah and Arizona without prior
approval from robation office. Other travel through the United Statcs the defendant must notify the Probation
Officer (aside from work) not earlier than 3:00 am; if traveling.

3. The defendant when not employed at least part-time and/or cnrolled in an educational or vocational program, the
defendant shall perform 250 hours of community service as directed by the Probation Officer.
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 458 Filed 01/25/10 Page 4 of 5

AO 245B (Rev. 09/08) Judgment in a Criminal Case
Sheet 5 Criminal] Monetary Penalties

Judgment = Page 4 of 5
DEFENDANT: MARK B. KABINS

CASE NUMBER: 2:07-CR-0039-JLQ-LRL
CRIMINAL MONETARY PENALTIES

The defendant must pay the total criminal monetary penalties under the schedule of payments on Sheet 6.

Assessment Fine Restitution

TOTALS 3 100.00 $ Waived $ 3,500,000.00

(] The determination of restitution is deferred until . An Amended Judgment in a Criminal Case (AO 245C) will be entered

after such determination.
(The defendant must make restitution (including community restitution) to the following payees in the amount listed below.

If the defendant makes a partial payment, each payee shall receive an approximately proportioned payment, unless specified otherwise in
the priority order or percentage payment column below. However, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3664(i), all nonfederal victims must be paid
before the United States is paid.

Name of Payee Total Loss* Restitution Ordered Priority or Percentage
TOTALS $e $ oo
X Restitution amount ordered pursuant to plea agreement $ _3,500,000.00

() The defendant must pay interest on restitution and a fine of more than $2,500, unless the restitution or fine is paid in full before the
fifteenth day after the date of the judgment, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3612(f). All ofthe payment options on Sheet 6 may be subject
to penalties for delinquency and default, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3612(g).

(]_ The court determined that the defendant does not have the ability to pay interest and it is ordered that:
[1 the interest requirement is waived for the OO fine (1 restitution.

L] the interest requirement for the CC] fine (1 restitution is modified as follows:

* Findings for the total amount of losses are required under Chapters 109A, 110, 110A, and 113A of Title 18 for offenses committed on or after
September 13, 1994, but before April 23, 1996.
Case 2:07-cr-00039-JLQ-LRL Document 458 Filed 01/25/10 Page 5 of 5

AO 245B (Rev. 09/08) Judgment in a Criminal Case
Sheet 6 -— Schedule of Payments

Judgment = Page 5 of
DEFENDANT: MARK A. KABINS
CASE NUMBER: 2:07-CR-0039-JLQ-LRL

SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS

Having assessed the defendant’s ability to pay, payment of the total criminal monctary penalties is duc as follows:

A  X_ Lump sum payment of $ — 3,500,100.00 due immediately, balance duc
LJ not later than or
(1 in accordance fT] c, QQ OD, (1 E,or§ (7 F below; or

B [{ Payment to begin immediately (may be combined with oc, {]D,or []F below); or

Cc Paymentin equal _ (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly) installments of $ . over a period of

(e.g., months oryears),tocommence se... 30. vr 60 days) after the date of this judgment; or
D Paymentinequal —=—s—s ss (0. g.,, weekly, monthly, quarterly) installments of $ over a period of
oe (e.g., months or years), to commence _ (e.g. 30 or 60 days) after rclease from imprisonment to a

term of supervision; oF

E Payment during the term of supervised release will commence within (e.g., 30 or 60 days) after release from
imprisonment, The court will set the payment plan based on an assessment of the defendant's ability to pay al that time; or

F Special instructions regarding the payment of criminal monetary penalties:

The defendant shall cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's Office to affect Restitution and ur as directed by the U.S, Probation Office.

Unless the court has expressly ordered otherwise, if this judgment imposes imprisonment, payment of criminal monetary penalties is due during
imprisonment. All criminal monetary penalties, except those payments made through the Federal Bureau of Prisons’ Inmate Financial

Responsibility Program, are made to the clerk of the court.

The defendant shall receive credit for all payments previously made toward any criminal monetary penalties imposed.

LI Joint and Several

Defendant and Co-Defendant Names and Case Numbers (including defendant number), ‘Total Amount, Joint and Several Amount,
and corresponding payee, if appropriate.

(J The defendant shall pay the cost of prosecution.
(J The defendant shall pay the following court cast(s):

[] The defendant shall forfeit the defendant’s interest in the following property to the United States:

Payments shall be applied in the following order: (1) assessment, (2) restitution principal, (3) restitution interest, (4) fine principal,
(5) fine interest, (6) community restitution, (7) penalties, and (8) costs, including cost of prosecution and court costs.
