OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada $9502

(99 con aren



' 18


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against ) Case No. 10-7510-1
MARK B. KABINS, M.D., FILED
) DEC - 6 2010
Respondent. ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
ay MDL Enns

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, at
the time the associated Second Amended Complaint filed on March 10, 2010, in the above-
captioned matter was authorized, by and through Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive
Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and Mark B. Kabins, M.D. (Respondent), through
his counsel of record, John A. Hunt, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on February 3, 2010, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint and on
March 10, 2010, filed a Second Amended Complaint in the above-referenced matter charging
Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Nevada’s
Medical Practice Act, i.e., Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS), to wit: a violation
of NRS 630.301(9), a violation of NRS 630.301(11)(g), and a violation NRS 630.306(2)(a), when
he pled guilty to and was convicted of Misprison of Felony, a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 4, in the
United States District Court, and

H/

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502



WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Second Amended Complaint’,
reviewed it, understands it, and has consulted with competent counsel concerning the nature and
significance of the Second Amended Complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his
rights and defenses to the Second Amended Complaint, including the amendments stated in
NRS 630.364, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and
concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act, and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled,
and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement, and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him, and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to
disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 8, and he will be provided
with an opportunity to defend himself against the charges against him as alleged in the Second
Amended Complaint at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws,

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve Case No. 10-7510-1 and charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions.

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Second Amended
Complaint filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of

violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

' While a Complaint and Second Amended Complaint were filed and served, the latter is the controlling document
and, as such, only it will be referenced.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

PTPN Cnn Area



2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by John A. Hunt, Esq.,

whom Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent, and fully advised in these
circumstances, and Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent shall not file a Writ of
Mandamus requesting relief pursuant to NRS 630.364, alleging arbitrary and capricious actions by
the Board, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of his counsel,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of
the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may
be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the Second
Amended Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Second Amended Complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said Second Amended Complaint, and Respondent further agrees
that the matter of the Second Amended Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right
to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall
have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all rights arising
under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him
or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the Second Amended Complaint
filed herein.

4, Consent to Entry of Order. Although Respondent believes that the amendments

of NRS 630.364 may preclude the Board from proceeding, Respondent is aware that the trier of
fact, the Board, may find a factual basis in support of the Second Amended Complaint against
Respondent. Accordingly, in order to resolve the matter without incurring further costs and
expense of providing a defense to the Second Amended Complaint or to any other further
amended complaint, and in exchange for the waiver of the Respondent’s foregoing rights,

Respondent has entered into this Agreement, and agrees:

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

[qdeN CAN Area


Se}


a. The Board may find that Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds
for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: Respondent pleading guilty to and
being convicted of Misprison of Felony, a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 4, was a violation of
NRS 630.301(9);

b. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(d), Respondent agrees upon adoption of this
Agreement, to accept a stayed suspension of his license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
for a period of six (6) months. If, during the term of Respondent’s six (6) months’ stayed
suspension, the IC receives substantial evidence that Respondent has materially breached the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, Respondent agrees the IC, without any further hearing or action
by the Board, shall issue an order suspending Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada. Thereafter, Respondent may request a hearing before the Board to reinstate his
license, which must be heard within forty-five (45) days of the Order of Suspension. However,
during the pendency of the hearing before the Board, Respondent waives any right to seek judicial
review (state or federal) to reinstate his privilege to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
pending a final Board hearing;

c. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(b), Respondent agrees the Board shall
administer a formal written public reprimand which will include language which is synonymous
with the terms of this Agreement;

d. Currently Respondent is serving five (5) years of probation pursuant to an
Order issued by the United States District Court, Case No. 2:07-cr-000039-JLQ-LRL. Pursuant to
NRS 630.352(4)(a), Respondent agrees he shall submit to the Board any and all documentation
regarding the terms of his probation entered in the United States District Court,
Case No. 2:07-cr-000039-JLQ-LRL.

e. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(a), Respondent agrees to being placed on
probation with the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to the terms and conditions
issued by the United States District Court. Within thirty (30) days of the adoption of this
Agreement, Respondent shall provide a copy of this Agreement to his office of Federal Parole and

Probation. Respondent shall also execute any documents necessary authorizing the office of

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
LFIFPN FOO AP EO


il

Federal Parole and Probation to release any and all reports generated regarding Respondent’s
compliance with the terms and conditions of Respondent’s federal probation. Once respondent is
given written notice of his completion of his probation, Respondent shall submit the written notice
to the Investigative Committee. Upon receipt of the written notice of completion the IC shall,
without any further action of the Board, authorize an Order reinstating Respondent’s license to the
status of good standing without restriction. If, during the term of Respondent’s probation, the IC
receives substantial evidence that Respondent has materially breached the terms and conditions of
his probation, Respondent agrees the IC, without any further hearing or action by the Board, shall
issue an order suspending Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada.
Thereafter, Respondent may request a hearing before the Board to reinstate his license which must
be heard within forty-five (45) days of the Order of Suspension. However, during the pendency of
the hearing before the Board, Respondent waives any right to seek judicial review (state or federal)
to reinstate his privilege to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending a final Board hearing;

f. Respondent agrees he shall make a donation of $5,000.00 to a charity to be
mutually agreed to by the parties;

g. Prior to execution of this Agreement, the Board has confirmed that
Respondent attended and completed a twenty-four-(24)-hour ethics course entitled “The PBI
Professional Boundaries Course”. However, Respondent agrees attendance and completion of the
twenty-four (24)-hour ethics course entitled “The PBI Professional Boundaries Course” may not
be used by Respondent to fulfill the normal continuing education requirements regarding ethics.

h. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(i) Respondent shall perform five hundred
(500) hours of community service without compensation pursuant to the terms and conditions set
forth in the attached community service proposal.

i. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall pay the sum of $7,973.14, the
current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter, plus any
additional costs incurred by the Board precedent to the acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement. Respondent further agrees that these costs to be paid the Board within sixty (60) days

of the entry of the Board’s order adopting this Agreement.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

faa ran anrean



j Respondent and Board agree that this Agreement does not involve facts or
circumstances relating to the delivery of health care to Respondent’s former patient,
Melodie Simon.

k. The terms of this Agreement may be reported as allowed by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suites, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this settlement or its administration.

6. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the Second Amended Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the
course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the
IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who
would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent acknowledges that such
contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to
be heard on his part or on the part of his counsel until the public Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Second Amended Complaint, and any and all
information of every mature whatsoever related to the Second Amended Complaint or the
proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or his
counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and if requested, to
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(IPN FOO AEE

N



IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and
ordering that this case be closed, subject to the provisions of Section 5.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent
further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial
District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.


Ml

HI!

Hl

HI!

HI

HI!


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(FIPN FORM AP eA

b

N DW ww


11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

is. 3 day of 2010

Dated this Say of Dee, , 2010 Dated

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq. “A. Hunt, Esq. a

Attorney for the Investigative Committee ofthe 3800 Howard Hughes Parkway, Suite 500
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as Vegas, Nevada 89169

I, Mark B. Kabins, M.D., hereby agree to the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent
Agreement as to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners’ Case Number 10-7510-1 and the

Second Amended Complaint filed therein.

eo
Dated this 3 of bel, 2010.

Mark B. Kabins, M.D., Respondent

COMMUNITY SERVICE PROPOSAL
(required hours: 500)

Mark B. Kabins, M.D.
NSBME Case No. 10-7510-1

The following is a non-exhaustive list of the types of community service that may be
provided by Dr. Kabins to satisfy the 500 hours of community service requirement which is
referenced at paragraph 4.h. of page 5 to the Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement in Case
No. 10-7510-1:

1. Provide free lecture to physician groups and other health care specialists regarding spine
surgery or general surgery matters.

2. Provide surgical or non-surgical clinical patient care to indigent patients throughout the
State of Nevada, at no cost.

3. Assist rural hospitals to develop new spine surgery or general surgery based services.

4. Provide free public seminars to citizen groups on spine surgery or general surgery related
topics.

5. Provide free lectures on spine surgery or general surgical issues to hospitals, clinics,

and/or nursing home staff and/or patients.

6. Attend local health fairs, public television or radio shows, telethons, or other similar
gathering, events, or shows and provide free lectures, discussions, question and answer sessions,
or facilitate discussions on spine surgery, general surgery, or other medical related topics.

7. Provide no cost “case review” for local physicians who are treating indigent patients.

8. Provide surgical and non-surgical patient care to indigent patients in the rural areas of
Nevada.

9, Provide second opinions and assistance, without compensation, to other physicians

providing free services or services at reduced fees.

10. Provide surgical and non-surgical patient care, without compensation, in disaster relief /
emergency situations in Nevada.

11. Volunteering to provide medical/surgical related services with religious/charitable
organizations in Nevada.

Page 1 of 2
VG1 59038v4 11/22/10
NOTICE OF INTENT TO PROVIDE AND PROOF OF COMPLIANCE
WITH COMMUNITY SERVICE REQUIREMENTS

Except as otherwise provided herein, Dr. Kabins agrees to submit written notification, via email,
to the Executive Director of the NSBME of any community service that he desires to perform to
complete his 500 hours of community service. The Executive Director then has three (3)
calendar days to provide any written comment or concerns, via email, to Dr. Kabins pertaining to
the proposed community service. If Dr. Kabins does not receive any such written comments or
concerns from the Executive Director, Dr. Kabins may proceed to perform the proposed
community service.

With regards to the community service referenced in paragraphs 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 above,
prior written notification and pre-approval of the same is not required where time constraints are
an issue or prohibit the same, including, but not limited to, emergency care being provided by
Dr. Kabins.

With regards to the community service referenced in paragraph 3 (‘‘Assist rural hospitals to
develop new spine surgery or general surgery based services”), Dr. Kabins agrees to submit
written notification, via email, to the Executive Director of the proposed itinerary/schedule with
regards to providing rural hospitals to develop new spine surgery or general surgery based
services.

Proof of compliance of any community service required under this community service proposal
shall be submitted in writing (can be scanned and emailed) directly to the Executive Director of
the NSBME. Such written proof shall contain the following information: a description of what
the community service consisted of; identify any organization, group, or individual that was the
recipient of the community service; identify when and where the community service was
performed; and describe the number of hours provided.

Page 2 of 2
VGI 59038v4 11/22/10


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 3" day of

December 2010, with the final total amount of costs due of $7,973.14.

Benj amin J. R driguez, MD., Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

