OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

faae\ saa Are

No



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
SEP 29 2010
In The Matter of Charges and ) N EVADA BE BOARD OF
) By: DEINE
Complaint Against ) ”
) Case No. 10-9809-2
JAMES TATE, M.D., )
Respondent. )

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners ("Board"),
composed at the time of filing of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.,
Member, and Valerie J. Clark, Member, by and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Deputy General
Counsel, having a reasonable basis to believe that James Tate, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
“Respondent”, has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal
Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 5717), and has been
so licensed since July 1, 1988 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A was a sixty-two year old (62) male at the time of the incidents in question.
His true identity is not disclosed to protect his privacy, but his identity is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. Patient A checked into the emergency room ("ER") at University Medical Center
on August 26, 2006. He complained of abdominal pain that was found to be mild with no
abdominal guarding or rebound tenderness, and no fever or chills were present.

4. The pertinent lab tests showed: WBC, 16; bilirubin, 2.1. An ultrasound scan

showed 2 gallstones in the gallbladder. No signs of acute cholecystitis were evident, and no

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fae ran nen

oS)

Ww

NS


sonographic Murphy's sign was evident which would be expected if Patient A had acute
cholecystitis.

5. Antibiotics were given, and a surgical consultation was requested. The surgical
consult reiterated the findings of the ER doctor, but also wanted an ERCP to be performed in order
to look for common duct stones. The tentative diagnosis was acute cholecystitis.

6. The next morning, August 27, 2006, Patient A's WBC had dropped to 13.1. He
was afebrile, and the abdominal exam was essentially normal.

7. Patient A, however, became jaundiced as his serum bilirubin rose from 2.1 to 4.7.
The surgeons again requested an ERCP. The evidence at this point supported a diagnosis of
common duct stones, and an ERCP was the only treatment strongly indicated.

8. On August 28, 2006, the surgeon again reiterated ‘the need for an ERCP for
probable common duct stones. The Internal Medicine ("IM") physician noted the increasing
evidence for a bile duct obstruction and reported that a GI consult/surgeon would be contacted to
perform the ERCP.

9. The ERCP was not performed, and no notes exist to explain why. Instead,
Respondent took Patient A into the OR at 10:30 a.m. for a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. As
stated above, no preoperative notes exist to demonstrate the reasons why the ERCP was not
performed or the reasons for the change in treatment plans. It is likely that an ERCP and removal
of the common duct stones was all the treatment necessary to resolve Patient A's acute illness, and
a cholecystectomy was unnecessary.

10. The cholecystectomy, by Respondent, began as a laparoscopic operation and was
converted to a laparotomy because of very dense adhesions encountered that made the
identification of the structures impossible. The gall bladder was removed with great difficulty
after the abdomen was opened up.

11. Upon removal of the gallbladder, by Respondent, the following complications
arose: a puncture of the portal vein that resulted in the loss of 2 units of blood, resection of the
central portion of the common duct and resection of the right hepatic artery. An operative

cholangiogram could not be performed to clarify the anatomy because no cystic duct could be

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(ateN ran Area


Ne)


found. The gallbladder bed continued to bleed after removal and required packing with surgical
sponges. The sponges had to be surgically removed the following day on August 29, 2006.

12. On September 1, 2006, an ERCP showed that the common duct could only be
opacified about half way when it was then blocked by a clip. Two gallstones were removed, the
largest of which was 1.5 cm in diameter.

13. That same day an exploratory laparotomy was performed in a futile search for bile
ducts. A transhepatic (right lobe) catheterization of the biliary tree and a percutaneous CT-guided
drainage of a subhepatic bile collection also took place.

14. The exploratory laparotomy was not indicated and should not have taken place. It
simply increased the extent of the damage.

15. Another laparotomy was performed on September 4, 2006. This too was not
indicated, but at a minimum, should not have been for the purpose of ligating the leaking ducts.
Nothing was accomplished by this procedure.

16. Since the second operation on August 29, 2006, Patient A's serum bilirubin level
stayed in the range of 10-20 mg%. His-hepatic lobe was infarcted and nonfunctioning.
Respondent's treatment plan at this point, to await spontaneous dilatation of the bile ducts, was
hopeless.

17. On September 23, 2006, a vena cava filter was inserted. The indications for this
filter were insufficient because Patient A had no manifestations of venous thrombosis or
pulmonary embolism and no contraindications to anticoagulants.

18. Patient A subsequently was transferred to England and gradually deteriorated where
he died of hepatic failure on October 30, 2006. The postmortem examination showed
malnutrition, an infarcted right liver lobe, absent common duct and a large hematoma where the
vena cava filter had eroded through the wall of the cava.

19. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent's medical care fell below the standard of
care on numerous occasions in the treatment of Patient A.

H/
/If

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fore AO APA

N Do Ww

oe)


20. Respondent failed to treat the common duct obstruction before performing a
cholecystectomy. A strongly indicated ERCP was not performed before and in lieu of performing
a cholecystectomy.

21. | Respondent improperly dissected tissues in the hilum of the liver when he was
uncertain of the anatomy. This resulted in a severe bile duct injury and infarction of the right lobe
of the liver. A cholecysteostomy should have been done instead.

22. Respondent failed to seek the advice of another surgeon during the unusually
difficult cholecystectomy.

23. Respondent failed after the cholecystectomy was completed to seek input from a
surgeon with expertise in treating bile duct injuries.

24. Respondent failed after the cholecystectomy was completed to transfer Patient A to
the care of a surgeon with expertise in treating bile duct injuries.

25. Respondent inappropriately performed a third operation in search of the missing
bile ducts that had been excised during the first operation. Even if Respondent had found the
ducts, he did not have the knowledge or experience to do anything that might benefit Patient A.
The operation was unnecessary, unsuccessful and harmful to Patient A.

26. Respondent inappropriately performed a fourth operation with the intention of
ligating the bile ducts when such procedure was not indicated.

27. | Respondent inappropriately performed an unnecessary operation to insert a vena
cava filter that later eroded through the wall of the cava and produced a large retroperitoneal
hematoma.

Count I

28. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

29. | Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of
a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used

under similar circumstances.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fara can Aren

mn ee BO

ND


30. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

31. Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under the same or similar circumstances as indicated above. Respondent exhibited global
deficiencies in knowledge, judgment and problem-solving strategies in the treatment of Patient A.
The treatment plan was faulty, and when complications developed that were beyond his
competence, Respondent failed in his obligation to arrange for Patient A's care to be assumed by a
physician with the requisite experience, training and knowledge.

32. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in Section 630.339 of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of service
of the Complaint.

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS §630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical
Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
/If
HI

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fdr ran aren


action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this KA day of September, 2010.

THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: ee foes ED)
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Deputy General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

fad PN ran area

b

N nm


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

> Ss.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws

of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the Respondent

herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered
during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, that he believes the
allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and

correct.

t,
Dated this ay “day of September, 2010.

C ALON _

Charles N. Held, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 29" day of September 2010; I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT & PATIENT
DESIGNATION, by mailing via USPS certified return receipt to the following:

Jacob L. Hafter, Esq.

Jacob Hafter & Associates

7201 Lake Mead Blvd., Ste. 210
Las Vegas, NV 89128

Dated this 29" day of September 2010.

AO ee

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

