OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(FPN On Arr

wm

NG


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR ERS

In The Matter of Charges and )
) Case No. 10-9819-1
Complaint Against )
BENJAMIN VENGER,M.D., _) FILED
) SEP - 7 2010
Respondent. ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
) MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By! 2 ye

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Ms. Valerie Clark, BSN,
RHU, LUTCF, by and through Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy Executive Director for the Board
and Attorney for the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to believe that
Benjamin Venger, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's
charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent was actively licensed to practice medicine by the Board on
September 19, 1987, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes,
and at all times addressed herein was so licensed. Respondent practices medicine in Las Vegas
and his indicated specialty to the Board is Neurosurgery.

2. Patient A was a fourteen-year-old male at the time of the events at issue. His true
identity is not disclosed herein to protect his privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient Designation
served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. Patient A presented to Sunrise Hospital in Las Vegas on June 25, 2004, with a two-
week history of headaches and feverish and confused. Respondent was called for a neurological

consult that morning where he noted abnormalities of Patient A’s frontal scalp and garbled speech.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

far pon nee



Tests showed that Patient A had an elevated white blood cell count and high erythrocyte
sedimentation rate. A CT scan of Patient A’s head showed a mass effect on the left side of Patient
A’s brain and a cerebral edema. Based upon these inputs, Respondent ordered a cerebral
angiogram and drug screen; the results of both were negative. A MRI of Patient A’s head
accomplished later in the day confirmed the previous CT scan findings of a left side mass effect
and diffuse sinusitis.

4, Patient A’s circumstance did not improve. Around 0730 on June 26, 2004,
Respondent again conducted an evaluation of Patient A. At the time of the evaluation, Patient A
was comatose, unresponsive to pain or stimulus. Respondent spoke to Patient A’s family around
1430 and recommended interventional surgery. Consent from Patient A’s family was obtained,
and the surgery began at approximately 2100. Interoperatively, Respondent discovered a subdural
empyema and multiple intracranial abscesses with intracranial pressure. In response, Respondent
performed a frontotemporoparietal craniotomy with evacuation of the intracranial abscesses and
subdural empyema and decompressive craniectomy.

5. After the surgical procedure, Patient A’s outlook was poor and Patient A’s chances
of survival were deemed minimal. After discussion with Respondent, Patient A’s family directed
that life support measures for Patient A be removed. Patient A expired at approximately 0100 on
June 27, 2004.

6. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent’s care and treatment of Patient A constitutes
malpractice. The combination of fever, headache, sinusitis, elevated white blood cell count, and
high erythrocyte sedimentation should have alerted Respondent to the fact that Patient A could be
suffering from a subdural empyema. The aforementioned information was available to
Respondent on June 25, 2004, but Respondent did not recommend surgical intervention to the
family of Patient A until the afternoon of June 26, 2004, and did not actually undertake surgical
intervention until later that evening.

7. Malpractice is defined at NAC 630.040 as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.”

Mf

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
fe@er\ coo ArFenN

wn Le

ND

1B

8. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(4), and is subject
to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation
or violations committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed;

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

yy
DATED this ~ day of September, 2010.

Edward Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

fore ran aren


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the Respondent
herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered
during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, that he believes the
allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and

correct.

Dated this T7 day of September, 2010.

CO po CY

Charles N. Held, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 7" day of September 2010; I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION, along with Fingerprint Information by mailing via USPS certified return

receipt to the following:

Benjamin Venger, M.D.
3737 Pecos McLeod Ste. 101
Las Vegas, NV 89121

Dated this 7 day of September 2010.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

