
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 13-25251-1
Complaint Against FI LE D
Carmen Felice Jones, M.D., SEP 09 2016
TATE BOARD OF
Respondent. NEMEDIGAE EXAMINERS
By:
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (“IC”) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(“Board”) and Carmen Felice Jones, M.D. (“Respondent”), a licensed physician in Nevada,
represented by Jacob L. Hafter, Esquire, of Hafter Law, hereby enter into this Settlement
Agreement (“Agreement”) based on the following:

A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board to practice medicine in Nevada since
April 1, 2002 (License No. 10127).

2. On April 10, 2013, investigators from the IC and the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy
conducted a site visit at Las Vegas Health Center, located at 6332 South Rainbow Boulevard, Suite
120, Las Vegas, Nevada, during an IC investigation (Case No: #13-14459) based upon allegations that
a Mr. Zeeshan Malik Hoodbhoy (“Hoodbhoy’) was engaging in the unauthorized practice of
medicine.


' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.


it

3. On April 19, 2013, the IC filed an Order of Summary Suspension (“Suspension”)
which immediately suspended Respondent’s medical license pursuant to the IC’s investigation of
Hoodhboy.

4, On June 5, 2013, Jones filed a lawsuit against the Board in U.S. District Court (Case
No.: 2:13-cv-00996) alleging a violation of her Constitutional and Statutory Due Process Rights when
the Board did not provide Jones with a post-deprivation hearing within 45 days of the April 19, 2013
dated Suspension.

5. On June 5, 2013, the IC filed an Order unconditionally reinstating Respondent’s
medical license.

6. On June 7, 2013, the IC filed the formal Complaint (‘Complaint’) in this matter
charging Respondent with several violations of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act).
Specifically, the Complaint alleged 19 counts of various violations of the Medical Practice Act.

7. On or about June 7, 2013, Respondent was properly served with a copy of the
Complaint, and has reviewed the Complaint, understands the Complaint, and has had the
opportunity to consult with above-identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the
Complaint.

8. On September 26, 2013, the IC filed the formal First Amended Complaint

(“Amended Complaint”) in this matter charging Respondent with several violations of Nevada

Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act). Specifically, the Complaint alleged 13 counts of various
violations of the Medical Practice Act.

9. Respondent filed various motions before the hearing officer in the defense of the
Complaint and First Amended Complaint. Certain of such motions are still pending before the hearing
officer as of the date of this Agreement.

10. On or about March 23, 2016, the Respondent’s federal lawsuit was dismissed by
the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the dismissal from the district court, finding

that the Eleventh Amendment immunity denied the federal district courts from hearing



Respondent’s case.

il. On or about April 28, 2016, Respondent re-filed her lawsuit in the Eighth Judicial
District Court of the State of Nevada (Case No: A-16-735825-C).

12. The Parties now desire to settle and compromise their disputes and differences with
respect to the various administrative and judicial cases, based upon and subject to the terms and
conditions set forth herein, provided that:

a. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter,
and of her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint and First Amended
Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the
United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada
Administrative Procedure Act (APA) (NRS Chapter 233B). These rights include the right to a formal
hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense,
in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses and evidence against her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the
decision is adverse to her.

b. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public
by regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against
Respondent’s license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and
imposition of administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the
Board concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

c. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between Respondent and the IC, not the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.



B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree
to the following terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint and First
Amended Complaint has been, a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that she may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at her own expense. Respondent acknowledges that he is represented by counsel,
Jacob L. Hafter, Esq., and wishes to resolve this matter with counsel. Respondent agrees that if
representation by counsel in this matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement
and for the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the
material change. Respondent agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this
Agreement after full consultation with and upon the advice of his counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms and

conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection with
this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice
Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that may apply to her in
connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this matter,
including defense of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint, adjudication of the allegations
set forth in the Complaint and First Amended Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary
actions or sanctions ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations
of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint as set out by this Agreement without a hearing or
any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.


/if



No


4, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint and First Amended

Complaint pending against Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated
with a hearing:

a. Within five (5) business days from the Board’s adoption of this Agreement,
Respondent shall dismiss with prejudice her lawsuit in Eighth Judicial District Court of the State
of Nevada (Case No: A-16-735825-C); and

b. Within five (5) business days from the Board’s adoption of this Agreement,
the Board shall issue Order dismissing the First Amended Complaint (13-25251-1) with prejudice
finding that there was insufficient evidence to prove that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act;

c. No actions taken by the Board pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to
be a disciplinary action taken against Respondent. As such, the Board will not file a report with the
National Practitioner Data Bank as a result of this Agreement.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,

or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of this case.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint pending against Respondent. In the

course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC




may communicate directly with Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.
Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or conducted ex
parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board meeting where
this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and First Amended Complaint, and
any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel
agree that Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if
requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect_of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board pursuant to Section B.4, herein.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the allegations in the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of the case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall
not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, Respondent consents to such
jurisdiction, and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Eighth Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Clark County.

Mf

HI




12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent agrees that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term or

condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by the
Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

] ie
Dated this {0 day of Gury , 2016. Dated this 20 day of

Robert G. Kilroy)Esq. Jaco he Halter, Esq.
Attorney torso vestigative Committee sop ey for Respondent

“(2 AGREED:

Carmen Peli ones, M-D. Hse

Dated this cs wt tat vey 2016.

, 2016.




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 9" day of September 2016, with case being dismissed
with prejudice.
ry

Michael J.f&6cher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

