

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kKREKKRSK

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 14-32161-1

‘FILED

Complaint Against )
yoo.
MAHESH R. KUTHURU, M.D., ) JUN - 7 2016
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
Respondent. By: get EXSDIN

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is. hereby’ entered into by and _ between the
Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), by and
through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., Board General Counsel and counsel for the IC, and
Mahesh R. Kuthuru, M.D. (Respondent), by and through John Savage, Esq. of John H. Cotton and
Associates, counsel for Respondent, as follows: .

WHEREAS, on March 25, 2014, the IC summarily suspended Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the state of Nevada after receiving notice that Respondent surrendered his
license to practice medicine in the state of New York while under investigation. This surrender
occurred after Respondent was charged by the New York State Board for Professional Medical
Conduct with 10 counts of fraud, one count of practicing the profession with negligence on more
than one occasion, 10 counts of gross negligence, one count of practicing the profession with
incompetence on more than one occasion, 10 counts of gross incompetence, 10 counts of
permitting or abetting the unlicensed practice of medicine, 10 counts of willful or gross
negligence, one count of moral unfitness, 10 counts of improper delegation, one count of failing to
maintain an accurate record, one count of failing to exercise appropriate supervision and one count

of excessive tests and treatments;


WHEREAS, by Stipulation and Order, Respondent agreed to allow the summary
suspension of his license to practice medicine in Nevada to indefinitely continue;

WHEREAS, on July 9, 2014, the IC filed a Complaint in Case No. 14-32161-1
(“Complaint”) charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC), to wit: Count I,
engaging in any conduct that the Board has determined is a violation of the standards of practice
established by regulation of the Board, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(b) and Count II, engaging
in any act that is unsafe or unprofessional conduct in accordance with regulations adopted by the
Board, a violation of NRS 630.306(16);

WHEREAS, on July 23, 2014, Respondent filed a General Denial to the allegations
asserted in the IC’s Complaint;

WHEREAS, on October 15, 2014, a Sealed Indictment (“Indictment”) was filed, in the

matter of United States of America vy. Mahesh Kuthuru, MD, United States District Court, District

of Nevada, Case No. 2:14-cr-00338. The basis of this Indictment was unrelated to the IC’s

Complaint. Respondent failed to notify the Board of this Indictment in a timely manner, which

resulted in the IC having an independent basis to file a second complaint against Respondent;
WHEREAS, a Judgment in a Criminal Case (“Judgment”) was filed on June 2, 2015, in

the matter United States of America v. Mahesh Kuthuru, MD, United States District Court,

Northern District of New York, Case Nos. 5:14-cr-00018-002 and 5:15-cr-00015-001. Pursuant to
this Judgment, Respondent pleaded guilty to one count of Unlawful Distribution of Controlled
Substances, a violation of 21 United States Code (“U.S.C.”) § 842(a)(1), and one count of Health
Care Fraud, a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1347. The Judgment sentenced Respondent to immediate
imprisonment of 18 months. Upon release from imprisonment, the Judgment sets forth that

Respondent will be subject to supervised release for three years, subject to certain conditions;

WHEREAS, Respondent’s convictions in United States of America v. Mahesh Kuthuru,

MD, United States District Court, Northern District of New York,


Case Nos. 5:14-cr-00018-002 and 5:15-cr-00015-001, provided the IC with another independent
basis to file a third complaint against Respondent;

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint and a copy of the Order of
Summary Suspension, reviewed it, understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with
his above-identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint, and
Respondent is fully aware concerning his rights and defenses to the Complaint, as well as the
possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he violated one or
more provisions of the MPA;

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Indictment and a copy of the
Judgment, reviewed it, understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his above-
identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the same with regards to possible
sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he violated one or more
provisions of the MPA as a result of the Order of Summary Suspension, Indictment and/or
Judgment;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the Complaint, the Order of Summary Suspension and any and all matters relating
to and any and all matters that may be charged by the Board or the Board’s IC by virtue of or in
connection with the above-referenced Indictment and/or Judgment, Respondent and the IC hereby
agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

IH



1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint and at all
times relevant with respect to the filing of the Indictment and the filing of the Judgment, and was a
physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the
Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the MPA and to impose sanctions as
provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_ Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified legal counsel in this matter and has had
ample opportunity to review this Agreement, the Complaint, the Order of Summary Suspension,
the Indictment, the Judgment, and the related factual basis with regards to the same with said legal
counsel. Respondent covenants and agrees that he knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters
into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants,

and conditions contained herein, and Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state
of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceedings on the Complaint,
the Order of Summary Suspension, the Indictment, the Judgment, the defense of said Complaint,
the defense of said Order of Summary Suspension and the adjudication of the charges in said
Complaint.

In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants, and conditions contained
herein, and Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights arising under or
pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter
630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may
apply to him in connection with the proceedings herein and/or any and all matters relating to and
any and all matters that may be charged by the Board or the Board’s IC by virtue of or in
connection with the above-referenced Indictment and/or the above-referenced Judgment and the
defense of the same in this administrative context.




4. Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent concedes only that the IC has sufficient

evidence to proceed with its formal Complaint against him, and that by virtue of the Indictment
and/or the Judgment, the Board also has sufficient evidence to bring additional allegations against
Respondent, but does not concede or admit to such allegations, which he expressly denies, and
which, but for his desire to reach this compromise, he would contest at a formal hearing of these
matters (i.e., the Complaint, as well as any and all matters that could be alleged by the Board with
regards to the Order of Summary Suspension, the Indictment and/or the Judgment). Accordingly,
in order to resolve these matters without incurring further costs and expense of providing a
defense to the Complaint and the Order of Summary Suspension, Respondent hereby agrees’ that
the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, and agrees:

a. The Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: conviction of a felony relating to the practice of medicine
or the ability to practice medicine, a violation of NRS 630.301(1), as set forth in the Judgment and
as alleged in the Indictment;

b. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(e) Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in the state of Nevada shall be revoked, effective June 3, 2016, pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth below. Respondent waives any right to seek judicial review (state or federal)
to reinstate his revoked license pending his release from imprisonment.

c. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(b) Respondent agrees the Board shall
administer a formal written public reprimand which will include language that is synonymous
with the terms of this Agreement.

d. Following his release from imprisonment pursuant to the Judgment,
Respondent may petition the Board to reinstate his license to practice medicine in the state of

Nevada pursuant to the following terms and conditions:

' All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court
proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

kh HY WN


(1) Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse to the Board
the sum of $874.86, the amount of the fees and costs incurred by the Board
to investigate and prosecute this matter, along with the costs to conclude the
matter, if any. Respondent must pay the reimbursement costs prior to
petitioning the Board for reinstatement of his license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada;
(2) Respondent must submit proof that he has complied with the
required continuing medical education requirements while imprisoned;
(3) Respondent must submit proof that Respondent has attended and
completed a 24-hour ethics course entitled “The PBI Professional
Boundaries Course.” However, Respondent agrees attendance and
completion of the 24 hour ethics course entitled “The PBI Professional
Boundaries Course” may not be used by Respondent to fulfill the normal
continuing medical education requirements regarding ethics.
e. In the event the Board reinstates Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in the state of Nevada, Respondent shall be placed on probation pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(a)
for a period of three years. Respondent shall also comply with any terms and conditions of parole

and probation related to the case of United States of America v. Mahesh Kuthuru, MD, United

States District Court, Northern District of New York, Case Nos. 5:14-cr-00018-002 and 5:15-cr-
00015-001. Within 30 days of Respondent’s release from incarceration, Respondent shall provide
a copy of this Agreement to the office of Federal Parole and Probation. Respondent shall also
execute any documents necessary to authorize the office of Federal Parole and Probation to
release any and all reports generated regarding Respondent’s compliance with the terms and
conditions of his federal probation to the Board and the IC. Once Respondent is given written
notice of his completion of his federal probation, Respondent shall submit the written notice to the
IC. Upon receipt of the written notice of Respondent’s completion of federal probation and
Respondent’s completion of the three years of probation with the Board and the IC, the IC shall,

without any further action of the Board, authorize an order reinstating Respondent’s license to


practice medicine in the state of Nevada to the status of active. If, during the term of
Respondent’s probation with the Board and the IC, the IC receives substantial evidence that
Respondent has materially breached the terms and conditions of his probation, Respondent agrees
the IC, without any further hearing or action by the Board, shall issue an order summarily
suspending Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada. Thereafter,
Respondent may request a hearing before the Board to reinstate his license, which must be heard
within 45 days of the order of summary suspension. During the pendency of the hearing on the
Respondent’s summary suspension, Respondent waives any right to seek judicial review (state or
federal) to reinstate his privilege to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending a final Board
hearing.

f. Pursuant to NRS 630.353(4)(a), Respondent agrees he shall submit to the
Board any and all documentation regarding any of the terms and conditions of parole and

probation related to the case of United States of America v. Mahesh Kuthuru, MD, United States

District Court, Northern District of New York, Case Nos. 5:14-cr-00018-002 and 5:15-cr-00015-
001 upon his release from prison.

g. This Agreement fully and completely resolves all matters contained in the
Complaint and all matters contained in the Order for Summary Suspension;

h. This Agreement fully and completely resolves all matters that have or may
be alleged by the Board or the Board’s IC against Respondent with regards to the Indictment
and/or the Judgment; and

i. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands

whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have


or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the matters referenced herein and above. In the course of seeking Board
approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate
directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this
case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
Complaint, the Order of Summary Suspension, the Indictment, the Judgment, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to the same or the proceedings herein against
Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the
Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that
may be addressed to the IC or its counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case
involving the Complaint, as well as any matter involving the Order of Summary Suspension, the
Indictment, and the Judgment, be closed.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.

Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing


contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Failure to Comply with Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with

IH

H/

Mf

Ml

IH

MI!


oO we ~I


NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Responden'* to civil collection efforts.

Dated this 2! day of HHA Uh 2016.

By: U4 KO

Robert Kilr
Attorney forthe Investigative Committee


Dated this 5! "day of Mevels 2016.

wfLe Ger —

John Savage, Esq.
/ in Sex for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

K Maher) Fell

Mahesh R. Kuthuru, M.D., ReSpondént



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the third day of June 2016, with the final total amount of
costs due of $874.86.

Michael J. GiScher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

