OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Exammers

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

ke KR SK

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 15-33456-1
Complaint Against ) FILED
LISA M. COHEN, M.D., ) JUN 14 2016
Respondent. ) By: ;

FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Robert G. Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the IC and the Board, having
a reasonable basis to believe that Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. (Respondent), has violated the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its formal First Amended Complaint,
stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1, Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 12977), and has been
licensed by the Board since December 12, 2008, pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice
Act.

2. On February 19, 2015, Respondent was the subject of discipline by the Board of
Registration in Medicine for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (See a true and correct copy of
the Consent Order from the Board of Registration in Medicine for the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, attached hereto as Exhibit “1.”)

iil |


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



Count I

3, All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

4, NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state, the Federal Government, a foreign country or any other
jurisdiction or the surrender of the license or discontinuing the practice of medicine while under
investigation by any licensing authority, a medical facility, a branch of the Armed Services of the
United States, an insurance company, an agency of the Federal Government or an employer, is
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

5. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the First Amended Complaint herein as set forth in NRS
630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the First Amended Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed;

/If
/If
HI
HI

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Exammers

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

22.

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this 1% day of June 2016.

THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

nye ALUILY

Robert G. Kifrey, Esq.
General Counsel

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

2 SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing First Amended Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing First Amended Complaint; and that based upon
information discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent,
he believes the allegations and charges in the foregoing First Amended Complaint against
Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this_/3” day of June, 2016.

Loos bbe

Wayne@Jardwick, M.D.

EXHIBIT “1”

EXHIBIT “1”
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Board of Registration in Medicine

200 Harvard Mill Square, Suite 330 CANDACE LAPIDUS SLOANE, M.D.

Wakefield, Massachusetts 01880 Chair, Physician Member

(781) 876-8200 KATHLEEN SULLIVAN MEYER, &SQ.

Vice Chair, Public Member

www.mass.gov/massmedboard MICHAEL HENRY, M.D

CHARLES D. BAKER ah ie : M.D,
Governor Enforcement Division Fax: (781) 876-8381 Secretary, Physician Member

KARYN E. POLITO Legal Division Fax: (781) 876-8380 JOSEPH CARROZZA, M.D,
Lieutenant Governor Licensing Division Fax: (781) 876-8383 Physician Member
MARYLOU SUDDERS PAUL DERENSIS, ESQ.
Secretary Public Member

Health and Human Services R. MICHAEL SCOTT, M.D.
MONICA BHAREL, MD, MPH Physician Member
Commissioner GEORGE ABRAHAM, M.D.

Depariment of Public Health CERTIFIC f TE Physician Member

To: Mollie Miller
Deputy Chief of Investigations
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Suite 301
1105 Terminal Way
Reno, NV 89502

I hereby certify that the attached documents, Bates stamped 1-7, listed below,
pertaining to Lisa M. Cohen, M.D., are true and accurate copies made this day from the
records maintained within the official files of the Massachusetts Board of Registration in
Medicine.

DOCUMENT'S

Statement of Allegations, dated February 19, 2015 (Bates #1-3)

Consent Order, dated February 19, 2015 (Bates #4-7)

Signed under the pains and penalties of perjury this 13" d yot May 201

We, i

Paes Specialist

Board Seal
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS

Middlesex, SS. Board of Registration in Medicine

Adjudicatory Case No. 2015-008

In the Matter of

LISA M. COHEN, M.D.

Re Ne a Net Searel

CONSENT ORDER

Pursuant to G.L. ¢. 30A, § 10, Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. (Respondent) and the Board of
Registration in Medicine (Board) (hereinafter referred to jointly as the "Parties") agree that the
Board may issue this Consent Order to resolve the above-captioned adjudicatory proceeding.

The Parties further agree that this Consent Order will have all the force and effect of a Final
Decision within the meaning of 80! CMR 1.01(11)(d). The Respondent admits to the findings of
fact specified below and agrees that the Board may make the conclusions of law and impose the
sanction set forth below in resolution of investigative Docket No. 14-219.

Findings of Fact

l. The Respondent was born on April 12, 1963. She graduated from the University
of Vermont College of Medicine in 1989, She is certified by the American Board of |
Dermatology and Dermatopathology. She has been licensed to practice medicine in
Massachusetts under certificate number 80079 since 1994. She is also licensed to practice
medicine in Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, [linois,

Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New

Consent Order - Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. | of4

York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont
and Virginia.

2. On May 30, 2010, the Respondent was arrested by the Chilmark Police
Department for a motor vehicle-related offense.

3. On June 28, 2010, a judge in the Edgartown District Court (Court) found
sufficient facts to warrant a finding of guilt but continued the matter without making such a
finding.

4, The Court placed the Respondent on probation, which was ultimately terminated
without incident on December 30, 2011.

5. On March 9, 2011, the Respondent filed a Physician Renewal Application (2011
Renewal Application) with the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine (Massachusetts
Board).

6. Question 17 of the 2011 Renewal Application states:

17) Criminal Charges
a) Have you been charged with any criminal offense during this period?
b) Have any criminal offenses/charges against you been resolved during this
lime period?
c) Are there any criminal charges pending against you today?
d) Are any Applications for Issuance of Process pending against you?
7. The Respondent should have responded to Question 17 a) and b) in the

affirmative. Instead, she responded in the neyative.

Consent Order ~ Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. 2 of 4

de eee

Conclusion of Law

A. The Respondent has violated 243 CMR 1.03(5)(a)16 by failing to furnish the
Board, its investigators or representatives, information to which the Board is legally entitled.
sanction and Order |
The Respondent's license is hereby admonished.

Execution of this Consent Order

The Respondent shall provide a complete copy of this Consent Order with all exhibits
and attachments within ten (10) days by certified mail, return receipt requested, or byyhand
delivery to the following designated entities: any in- or out-of-state hospital, nursing home,
clinic, other licensed facility, or municipal, state, or federal facility al which the Respondent
practices medicine; any in- or out-of-state health maintenance organization with whom the
Respondent has privileges or any other kind of association: any state agency, in- or out-of-state,
with which the Respondent has a provider contract; any in- or out-of-state medical employer,
whether or not the Respondent practices medicine there; the state licensing boards of all states in
which the Respondent has any kind of license to practice medicine; the Drug Enforcement
Administration Boston Diversion Group; and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health
Drug Control Program. The Respondent shall also provide this notification to any such
designated entitics with which the Respondent becomes associated in the year following the date
of imposition of this admonishment. ‘The Respondent is further directed to certify to the Board
within ten (10) days that the Respondent has complied with this directive.

The Board expressly reserves the authority to independently notify, at any time, any of

the entities designated above, or any other affected entity, of any action it has taken.

Consent Order — Lisa M, Cohen, M.D. 3 of4
Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. /Date’
Licensee

/ i/; - Ls a
Thomas E, Peisch, Esq. ? Dat

Attorney for the Licensee

Ves. if (af, ys
“=~John-Gostello Date
Complaint Counsel

So ORDERED by the Board of Registration in Medicine this 19thday of February _.

20 15.
<2, LK tts hutluea MNeepoe!
Kathleen Sullivan Meyer
Board Vice Chair
Consent Order — Lisa M. Cohen. M.D. 4of4

SENT CERTIFIED MAIL 3l20lls@>
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
Middlesex, SS. Board of Registration in Medicine

Adjudicatory Case No. 2015-008

In the Matter of

LISA M. COHEN, M.D.

STATEMENT OF ALLEGATIONS

The Board of Registration in Medicine (Board) has determined that pood cause exists to
believe the lollowing acts occurred and constitute a violation for which a licensee may be
sanctioned by the Board. The Board therefore alleges that Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. (Respondent)
has practiced medicine in violation of law, regulations, or good and accepted medical practice as
set forth herein. The investigative dacket number associated with this order to shaw cause is
Docket No. 14-219.

Biozraphical Information

l. The Respondent was barn on April 12, 1963. She graduated from the University
of Vermont College of Medicine in 1989, She is certified by the American Board of
Dermatology and Dermatopathology. She has been licensed to practice medicine in
Massachusetts under certificate number 80079 since 1994. She is also licensed to practice
medicine in Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, I[linois,
Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, ‘Tennessee, ‘Texas, Vermont

and Virginia.

Statement of Allegations — Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. Lof3
Factual Allegations

2, On May 30, 2010, the Respondent was arrested by the Chilmark Police
Department for a motor vehicle-related offense.

3. On June 28, 2010, a judge in the Edgartown District Court (Court) found
sufficient facts to warrant a finding of guilt but continued the matter without making such a
finding.

4, The Court placed the Respondent on probation, which was ultimately terminated
without incident on December 30, 2011.

5, On March 9, 2011, the Respondent filed a Physician Renewal Application (2011
Renewal Application) with the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine (Massachusetts
Board).

6. Question 17 of the 2011 Renewal Application states:
17) Criminal Charges
a) Have you been charged with any criminal offense during this period?
b) Have any criminal offenses/charges against you been resolved during this
time period?
c) Are there any criminal charges pending against vau today?
d) Are any Applications lor Issuance of Process pending against you?
7. The Respondent should have responded to Question | 7 a) and by in the 7
affirmative. Instead, she responded in the negative.

Lepal Basis for Proposed Relic!

A, Pursuant to 243 CMR 1.03(5)(a)16, the Board may discipline a physician upon

proof satisfactory to a majority of the Board, that said physician has failed to respond to a

Statement of Allegations ~ Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. 2of3
subpoena or to furnish the Board, its investigators or representatives, documents, information or
testimony to which the Board is legally entitled.

The Board has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to G.L. ¢. 112, $§ 5, 61 and 62. This
adjucicatory proceeding will be conducted in accordance with the provisions af G.L. ¢. 30A and
801 CMR 1.01,

Nature of Relief Sought

The Board is authorized and empowered to order appropriate disciplinary action, which
may include revocation or suspension of the Respondent's license to practice medicine. The
Board may also order, in addition to or instead of revocation or suspension, one or more of the
following: admonishment, censure, reprimand, fine, the performance of uncompensated public
service, a course of education or training or other restrictions upon the Respondent's practice of

medicine.

Order

Wheretore, it is hereby ORDERED that the Respondent show cause why the Board
should not discipline the Respondent for the conduct described herein.

By the Board of Registration in Medicine,


: Kathleen Sullivan Meyér
Board Vice Chair

Date: February 19,2015

Statement of Allegations — Lisa M. Cohen, M.D. 3 0f3

SENT CERTIFIED MAIL. oloolis@g

i)
