



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
wk kk eK
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 16-28591-1
Complaint Against FI LE D
LO FU TAN, M.D., DEC - 5 2016
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By:
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) and Lo Fu Tan, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, represented by John
H. Cotton, Esq. and Katherine A. Manthei, Esq. of the law firm John H. Cotton & Associates,

hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician licensed (#10849) by the Board to practice medicine in
Nevada.

2. On January 26, 2016, the IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint) in this matter

charging Respondent with one violation of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one violation of NRS 630.301(4), malpractice, as defined by NAC 630.040.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, and has reviewed

the Complaint, understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with above-

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.


u




identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA)
(NRS Chapter 233B). These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between Respondent and the IC, not the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter, Respondent and the IC hereby
agree to the following terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set

forth in the Medical Practice Act.




2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at his own expense. Respondent acknowledges that he is represented by counsel, John
H. Cotton, Esq. and Katherine A. Manthei, Esq., and wishes to resolve this matter with counsel.
Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this matter materially changes prior to
entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will
be timely notified of the material change. Respondent agrees that he knowingly, willingly and
intelligently enters into this Agreement after full consultation with and upon the advice of his

counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply to
him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent agrees that the

IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that
is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: one count of malpractice, a
violation of NRS 630.301(4)(malpractice).

Ml



Accordingly, Respondent hereby agrees that:

a. Respondent pleads “nolo contendere” (i.e., no contest) to violating NRS
630.301(4)(malpractice) regarding his treatment of Patient A on November 12, 2012.

b. Respondent shall pay the Board $1887.77, the fees and costs incurred as
part of the Board’s investigative, administrative, and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent,
as authorized by NRS 622.400, within 30 days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement.

C. Respondent shall take three (3) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
relative to proper procedures for treating anaphylaxis conditions within six (6) months of the date of
the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of
CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a
condition of licensure in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their
completion.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including but not limited to, the National Practioner Data Bank.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, and panels, hearing officers, consultants and
agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of this case.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in




resolution of the Complaint pending against Respondent. In the course of seeking Board
acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate
directly with Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the allegations in the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of the case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not
seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, Respondent consents to such
jurisdiction, and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.




15°

{7


12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent agrees that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. .

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepied, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, ‘which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an otder of the Board, which may
result in, additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

14. ‘Terms. The terms listed in this Agreement constitute the complete understanding

between the Respondent and the IC. No other terms and/or conditions may be included or implied.

Dated this Go day of V7? Y , 2016, Dated this 35 day of AJ NOrNDYG 2016,


Robert Kilroy, Esq. “ John H. Cotton, Exy-——
Attomeyfer the Investigative Committee Katherine A. Manthei, Esq.
Attorney’ for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
Y bor Jo
Lo Fu TAN, M.D, Respondent
Dated this 19 ay of Naveed O16.


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 2" day of December 2016, with the final total amount

of costs due of $1,887.77.

scher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

