

ORIGINAL

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 16-30572-1

) FILED
Complaint Against )

) JUN - 7 2016
SIMMON L. WILCOX, M.D., ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. )
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS SETTLEMENTAGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is hereby entered into by and
between the Investigative Committee (“IC”) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(“Board”), composed of Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and M. Neil
Duxbury, Public Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq.,
General Counsel for the IC, and Simmon L. Wilcox, M.D. (“Respondent”), by and through
John A. Hunt, Esq., counsel for Respondent:

WHEREAS, an Indictment was filed on October 23, 2013 (“Indictment”), in the matter of

United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, Benjamin David Grisel, Brenda Ann Grisel,

Jeron Scott Hales, Jeremy Daniel Perkins, and Randal David Ayrton, United States District Court,

District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW.' Respondent provided the
Board with timely notice of the Indictment.
WHEREAS, following a jury trial involving Respondent only, a Verdict Form was filed

on January 28, 2015, in the matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United

District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW, which notes the jury found

‘Each Defendant, with the exception of the Respondent, reached a plea deal with the Government wherein they each
plead guilty to Count 1 of the Indictment (i.e., Conspiracy to Distribute Oxycodone, 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1) and 846).



Respondent guilty as to Count 1 of the Indictment (i.e., Conspiracy to Distribute Oxycodone, 21
U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1) and 846) and guilty as to Count 2 of the Indictment (i.e., Distribution of
Oxycodone, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1)).

Moreover, the Verdict Form reflects the jury found Respondent not guilty as to Count 8
(i.e., Distribution of Hydrocodone, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1)), Count 9 (.e., Distribution of
Hydrocodone, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1)), and Count 10 (.e., Distribution of Hydrocodone, 21 U.S.C.
§ 841(a)(1)).

WHEREAS, following the filing of the Verdict Form, a sentencing hearing for

Respondent in the matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States

District Court, District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW, was set for
April 18, 2016.

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint in the above-captioned
matter (Case No. 16-30572-1), has reviewed it, understands it, has had ample opportunity to
consult with his above-identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint
in Case No. 16-30572-1, and Respondent is fully aware concerning his rights and defenses to the
Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes
that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act (“MPA”), Nevada Revised
Statutes (““NRS”) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code Chapter 630.

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Indictment and a copy of the Verdict
Form, has reviewed them, understands them, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his
above-identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the same with regards to
possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has violated one
or more provisions of the MPA as a result of the Indictment and/or Verdict Form.

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1 and any and all matters relating to and any
and all matters that may be charged by the Board or the Board’s IC by virtue of or in connection
with the above-referenced Indictment, the Verdict Form, and/or any sentencing/judgment
following the sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, Respondent and the IC
hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint in Case
No. 16-30572-1, and at all times relevant with respect to the filing of the above-referenced
Indictment, the Verdict Form and/or any sentencing/judgment following the sentencing hearing
currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, Respondent was, a physician licensed to practice medicine
in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the MPA and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified legal counsel in this matter and has had
ample opportunity to review this Agreement, the Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1, the above-
referenced Indictment and the Verdict Form (as well as consider the sentencing hearing currently
scheduled for April 18, 2016), and the related factual basis with regards to the same with said
legal counsel, John A. Hunt, Esq. Respondent covenants and agrees that he knowingly, willingly
and intelligently enters into this Agreement.

3, Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants,

and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceedings on the Complaint in

Case No. 16-30572-1, the Indictment, the Verdict Form, and/or any sentencing/judgment



following the sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, the defense of said
Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1, and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint in Case
No. 16-30572-1.

In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants, and conditions contained
herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights arising under or
pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter
630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may
apply to him in connection with the proceedings herein and/or any and all matters relating to and
any and all matters that may be charged by the Board or the Board’s IC by virtue of or in
connection with the above-referenced Indictment, the Verdict Form, any sentencing/judgment
following the sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, and the defense of the
same in this administrative context.

4. Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent concedes only that the Board has

sufficient evidence to proceed with its formal Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1 against him, and
that by virtue of the Indictment, the Verdict Form and the sentencing/judgment following the
sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, the Board also has sufficient evidence
to bring additional allegations against Respondent, but does not concede or admit to such
allegations, which he expressly denies, and which, but for his desire to reach this compromise, he
would contest at a formal hearing of these matters (i.e., the Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1 as
well as any and all matters that could be alleged by the Board or the IC with regards to the
Indictment, the Verdict Form and the sentencing/judgment following the sentencing hearing
currently scheduled for April 18, 2016). Accordingly, in order to resolve these matters without
incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to the Complaint, Case No. 16-30572-
1, Respondent hereby agrees” that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged

in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA, and agrees:

“All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court
proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.



a. The Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: Respondent being found guilty as to Count | of the
Indictment (i.e., Conspiracy to Distribute Oxycodone, 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1) and 846) and guilty
as to Count 2 of the Indictment (i.e., Distribution of Oxycodone, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1)), which are
violations of NRS 630.301(9).

b. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(d), Respondent agrees that if he is sentenced
to probation and/or supervised release at the sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April

18, 2016, in the matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District

Court, District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW, that effective on said
date, the following shall apply’:

1, Respondent agrees to accept a stayed suspension of his license to
practice medicine in the state of Nevada for a period of six (6) months. If, during the term of
Respondent’s six (6) months’ stayed suspension, the IC receives substantial evidence that
Respondent has materially breached the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Respondent
agrees the IC, without any further hearing or action by the Board, shall issue an order suspending
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada. Thereafter, Respondent may
request a hearing before the Board to reinstate his license, which must be heard within forty-five
(45) days of the Order of Suspension. However, during the pendency of the hearing before the
Board, Respondent waives any right to seek judicial review (state or federal) to reinstate his
privilege to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending a final Board hearing;

2. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(a), Respondent agrees to being placed
on probation with the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to the terms and

conditions issued by the United States District Court in the matter of United States of America v.

Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District Court, District of Utah, Central Division, Case No.

2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW. Within thirty (30) days of the sentencing hearing, Respondent shall

3So there is no misunderstanding, Respondent, the Board, and the IC recognize and agree the terms and conditions of
Paragraph 4.b. and all of its subparts shall apply and be applicable only if Respondent is sentenced to probation
and/or supervised release in the matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District
Court, District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW, and, accordingly, if Respondent is
sentenced to probation and/or supervised release, the terms and conditions of Paragraph 4.c. (and its subparts) shall
not apply and shall not be effective.



provide a copy of this Agreement to the office of Federal Parole and Probation and/or any other
applicable office/department. Respondent shall also execute any documents necessary authorizing
the office of Federal Parole and Probation and/or any other applicable office/department to release
any and all reports generated regarding Respondent’s compliance with the terms and conditions of
Respondent’s federal probation and/or supervised release. Once Respondent is given written
notice of his completion of his federal probation and/or supervised release, Respondent shall
submit the written notice to the Investigative Committee. Upon receipt of the written notice of
completion of Respondent’s federal probation and/or supervised release, the Board shall issue an
Order reinstating Respondent’s license to the status of “active” without restriction. If, during the
term of Respondent’s federal probation and/or supervised release, the IC receives substantial
evidence that Respondent has materially breached the terms and conditions of his federal
probation and/or supervised release, Respondent agrees the IC, without any further hearing or
action by the Board, shall issue an order suspending Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada. Thereafter, Respondent may request a hearing before the Board to reinstate
his license, which must be heard within forty-five (45) days of the Order of Suspension.
However, during the pendency of the hearing before the Board, Respondent waives any right to
seek judicial review (state or federal) to reinstate his privilege to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada pending a final Board hearing.

3. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse to the Board
the sum of $998.46, the amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute
this matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. Respondent further agrees that
these costs shall be paid to the Board within ninety (90) days of the sentencing in the federal

matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District Court, District

of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW.
c. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(e), Respondent agrees that if he is sentenced
to incarceration/custody at the sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, in the

matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District Court, District



of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW, that effective on the date that he
presents to begin his incarceration/custody sentence, the following shall apply’:
1. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
shall be revoked, pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth below.
a. Following his release from  incarceration/custody,
Respondent may petition the Board to reinstate Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada pursuant to the following terms and conditions:

i. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall
reimburse to the Board the sum of $998.46, the amount of the costs incurred by the Board to
investigate and prosecute this matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any.
Respondent must pay these costs prior to petitioning the Board for reinstatement of Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada;

ii. Respondent must submit proof that Respondent has
complied with required continuing education requirements while incarcerated/in-custody;

iii. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(a) in addition to any
additional terms the Board deems appropriate in the event the Board reinstates Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, Respondent shall be placed on probation for a
period of one (1) year. Respondent shall also comply with any terms and conditions of parole and
probation and/or supervised release which may follow the incarceration/custody period, if any,

related to the case of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District

Court, District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW. Within thirty (30)
days of Respondent’s release from incarceration/custody, Respondent shall provide a copy of this
Agreement to the office of Federal Parole and Probation and/or any other applicable
office/department. Respondent shall also execute any documents necessary authorizing the office

of Federal Parole and Probation and/or any other applicable office/department to release any and

“So there is no misunderstanding, Respondent, the Board, and the IC recognize and agree the terms and conditions of
Paragraph 4.c. and all of its subparts shall apply and be applicable only if Respondent is sentenced to
incarceration/custody in the matter of United States of America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District Court,
District of Utah, Central Division, Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW, and, accordingly, if Respondent is sentenced to
incarceration/custody, the terms and conditions of Paragraph 4.b. (and its subparts) shall not apply and shall not be
effective.



all reports generated regarding Respondent’s compliance with the terms and conditions of
Respondent’s federal probation and/or supervised release following his incarceration/custody.
Once Respondent is given written notice of his completion of his federal probation and/or
supervised release following his incarceration/custody, Respondent shall submit the written notice
to the Investigative Committee. Upon receipt of the written notice of completion of federal
probation and/or supervised release following his incarceration/custody and Respondent’s
completion of the one (1) year of probation relative to Respondent’s Nevada medical license, the
Board shall issue an Order reinstating Respondent’s license to the status of “active” without
restriction. If, during the term of Respondent’s federal probation and/or supervised release
following his incarceration/custody or Respondent’s Nevada medical license probation, the IC
receives substantial evidence that Respondent has materially breached the terms and conditions of
either probation and/or supervised release following his incarceration/custody, Respondent agrees
the IC, without any further hearing or action by the Board, shall issue an order suspending
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada. Thereafter, Respondent may
request a hearing before the Board to reinstate his license, which must be heard within forty-five
(45) days of the Order of Suspension. However, during the pendency of the hearing before the
Board, Respondent waives any right to seek judicial review (state or federal) to reinstate his
privilege to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pending a final Board hearing.

iv. Respondent agrees he shall submit to the Board any
and all documentation regarding any of the terms and conditions of parole and probation and/or

supervised release following his incarceration/custody related to the case of United States of

America v. Simmon Lee Wilcox, United States District Court, District of Utah, Central Division,

Case No. 2:13-cr-00717-TS-PMW upon Respondent’s release from incarceration/custody.

d. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(b), Respondent agrees the Board shall
administer a formal written public reprimand which will include language which is synonymous
with the terms of this Agreement.

e. Respondent and the Board agree that this Agreement does not involve facts

or circumstances relating to the delivery of health care to Respondent’s former patients.



f. This Agreement fully and completely resolves all matters contained in the
Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1.

g. This Agreement fully and completely resolves all matters that have or may
be alleged by the Board or the Board’s IC against Respondent with regards to the Indictment, the
Verdict Form and/or any sentencing/judgment following the sentencing hearing currently
scheduled for April 18, 2016.

h. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the matters referenced herein and above. In the course of seeking Board
approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate
directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this
case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication
may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the
part of his counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that
such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1, the Indictment, the Verdict Form, the
sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016, and any and all information of every
nature whatsoever related to the same or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and

its counsel agree that Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this


Agreement is discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or its counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein (as may be applicable relative to
Paragraphs 4.b. or 4.c. and their respective subparts — see discussion above), and ordering that this
case involving the Complaint in Case No. 16-30572-1, as well as any matter involving the
Indictment, the Verdict Form and the sentencing hearing currently scheduled for April 18, 2016,
be closed.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to see enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District court, state

of Nevada, Washoe County.




11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply with Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this 13 day of Atta (2016. Dated this “OA day of Aol , 2016.
Robert Kilroy, Esq. VA A. Hunt, My
General Counsel ferthe Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent

co 1) AGREED:

Simmon Lee Wilcox, M.D.,4 Respondent
HAWDDOCS\7213\3952\LV 197646. DOCX




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the third day of June 2016, with the final total amount of
costs due of $998.46.

Michael J. E<cher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

