OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 16-8164-1

Complaint Against )

MARK HOEPFNER, M.D., ) FI LE D

) JAN 27 20

Respondent. ) p
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
BY? 2 ecteemenns

Prone VAR nee ne erenhct REM HESHOES ret

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board)

hereby issues this formal Complaint (Complaint) against Mark Hoepfner, M.D. (Respondent), a
licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a reasonable basis to
believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630
and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act).

The IC alleges the following facts:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 5680), and has been
so licensed by the Board since July 1, 1988, and, at all times alleged herein, Respondent was
licensed in an active status by the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

2. Previous to the preparation of this Complaint, the Board solicited the services of an
independent medical expert (IME) to review the medical records of Patient A and render an
opinion regarding whether Respondent failed to perform to the standard of care and treatment,
which could constitute malpractice under the Medical Practice Act.

If

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners was composed of Board members
Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Bashir Chowdhry, M.D., and Ms. Sandy Peltyn.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medica! Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


3. Patient A, a female, at the time of the events at issue, and, her true identity is not
disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon
Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

4. On or about December 31, 2011, Patient A, a resident of Michigan, while visiting
Las Vegas, Nevada and intending to stay until March 2012, was admitted into the emergency
department (ED) with severe abdominal pain on her right side. A CT scan revealed an appendix
of 12mm diameter and suggested appendicitis. Respondent noted that Patient A had abdominal
pain, on-going diabetes and morbid obesity. Additionally, Respondent concluded that Patient A
had probable mild, early acute appendicitis. Patient did not recall whether her appendix had been
previously removed.

5. On or about January 1, 2012, Respondent proceeded with an emergency
laparoscopic appendectomy, and removed what he believed to be Patient A’s remaining appendix,
which Respondent measured at 5.2 x 1.3 x 0.3 cm.

6. On or about January 2, 2012, Patient A was discharged in an improved and
essentially pain-free condition. Respondent did not prescribe any antibiotics.

7. On or about January 3, 2012, lab results returned indicating that “[t]here was no
gross evidence of an appendix” in the specimen.

8. On or about January 4, 2012, Respondent learned of the pathology findings.

9. On or about January 5, 2012, after receiving the written pathology report,
Respondent contacted and explained the pathology results to Patient A as what may have been
evidence of stump appendicitis from a prior appendectomy or a disintegrated appendix at the time of
surgery. Patient A reported to Respondent that she felt well, was eating fine and had no infection.
Respondent directed Patient A to follow up with her primary care physician when she returned to
Michigan.

10. On or about March 28, 2012, Patient A underwent an appendectomy in Michigan
after the hospital learned from the pathology report that Patient A’s appendix was not removed.
The structure obtained measured 7.5 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm.

Mf

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301



11. In response to the Board’s inquiry, Respondent indicated that, at the time he operated,
Patient A’s anatomy was relatively indiscernible and compromised due to Patient A’s past operations.
Respondent removed what was discerned to be the appendix based on context, knowledge of past
known and unknown abdominal procedures and diagnostic tests of this CT and ultrasound.

12. The IME concluded that Respondent missed Patient A’s appendix during the
appendectomy, and failed to properly notify Patient A about the significance of the pathology
report. Accordingly, by taking Patient A to the operating room, Respondent had an obligation to
take Patient A’s appendix out.

13. The IME believes what Respondent found during the surgery was inconsistent with
what the radiologist described in the CT scan (a 12 mm diameter appendix). If Respondent could
not identify the appendix laparoscopically—which happened—then Respondent had an obligation
to use the open technique to find the appendix. Importantly, Respondent was notified after the
surgery that the specimen he collected from the surgery was not the appendix. However,
Respondent did not conduct a follow-up physical examination of the patient, a repeat CT scan, or
offer Patient A, a repeat surgery.

14. | The IME concluded that Respondent committed malpractice “for failing to treat
this patient using [the] responsible care, skill, and knowledge that would be used under similar
circumstances” because the evidence clearly shows that Respondent: i) failed to remove Patient
A’s appendix; ii) did not perform a post operative visit; and tii) when Respondent was notified by
the pathology report that the specimen he collected was not the appendix, Respondent should have
taken immediate steps to notify Patient A, have another CT scan, or even conduct another surgery.

15. | The IME believed that this case represented a case of radiological, surgical and
pathological discordance, because the Respondent was responsible for treating Patient A’s
medical issue. By not treating Patient A with the reasonable care, skill, or and knowledge that
would ordinarily be used under similar circumstances for appendicitis, Respondent committed
medical malpractice.

16. The IME believed that Respondent, knowing that Patient A was returning to

Michigan, should have attempted to communicate with Patient A’s care provider, including

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


providing a letter explaining the events that occurred under Respondent’s care and that the
appendix was not removed.

17. Based upon the foregoing, the IC charges Respondent with the following violations
of the Medical Practice Act.

COUNTI
(Malpractice - NRS 630.301(4))

18. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

19. |NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice, as defined in NAC 630.040, means the
failure of a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge
ordinarily used under similar circumstances, is grounds for discipline.

20. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
committed malpractice in the course of providing care and treatment to Patient A when he: i)
failed to remove Patient A’s appendix; ii) did not perform a post operative visit; and iii) when
Respondent was notified by the pathology report that the specimen he collected was not the
appendix, Respondent failed to take immediate steps to notify Patient A, to have another CT scan,
or even conduct another surgery.

21. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an
Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine the sanctions it will impose if it finds Respondent
violated the Medical Practice Act;

H/

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



4, That the Board make, issue and serve upon the Respondent, in writing, its findings
of fact, conclusions of law and order, which shall include the sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises. |

DATED this 24 day of January, 2016.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

py. AOC

Robert Kilro¥; Esq.
General C el for the Board
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF CLARK )

Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the state of Nevada that she is the Chairwoman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that she has read the foregoing Complaint; and based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, she
believes the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true,
accurate and correct.

Dated this o? 47 day of January, 2016.

CC V2, ton

Beverly A. Neyland/M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 27" day of January 2016; I served a file stamp copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION & Fingerprint information, via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to the

following:

Mark Hoepfner, M.D.

clo Robert C. McBride, Esq.
Carroll, Kelly, Trotter, Franzen, McKenna & Peabody
8329 W. Sunset Rd., Ste. 260
Las Vegas, NV 89113

Dated this 27" day of January, 2016.

Li Drwbn

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

