

NM
1?


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
kek t
In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 10-19389-1
Complaint Against ) FI LE D
LORRAINE CHUN, M.D., MAR 14 2011
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. ) By: MEDECAL EXAMINERS
+) :

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
JUIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of
Benjamin J. Rodrigeuz, M.D, Mr. Van Heffner and Beverly Neyland, M.D., by and through
counscl, J.yn E. Beggs, Esq., and Lorraine Chun, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on November 2, 2010, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: onc count
of malpractice as set forth in count | of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.301(4); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands
the nature and significance of the Complaint and is fully advised conceming her rights and
defenscs to the Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that she has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act and after due consideration concedes that she committed malpractice as
defined and sct forth in count ! of the Complaint; and

WHEREAS. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between herself and the Board’s Investigative Committce, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open

session at a Board mceting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shail



advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that if
the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terns,
covenants and conditions cnumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and
the Board's Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committec in said matter, Respondent and the
Investigative Committee hereby agrce to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against her without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered
herein by the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: onc count of malpractice as defined by NAC 630.040
and as set forth in count | of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.301(4); and ordering that
Respondent be issued a public reprimand. Respondent shall further be ordered to reimburse the
Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case,
the current amount being $4079.99, not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this
Agrcement. The costs and fines shall be paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
within nincty (90) days of the acceptance of this Agreement by the Board.

2. Jurisdiction, Respondent was at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject
to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical
Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Representation by Counsel. Respondent acknowledges that she is not represented
by counsel and wishes to proceed towards resolution of this matter as set forth in this Agreement
without counsel. Respondent understands and acknowledges that she may retain and consult counsel

prior to entering into this Agrecment and agrees that if counsel is retained for representation in this


}2
2)


representation in this matter prior to entering into this Agreement, that counsel for the Investigative
Committee will be informed of such prior to Respondent executing this Agreement.

4. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this
Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that she may consult with
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained hercin, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233R that may be available to Respondent or
that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed
herein, the defense of said Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and
Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the
complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing
or aty further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the cvent this Agreement is
not approved by the Board, this Agrcement shall have no force and effect and Respondent shall
have all nghts arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or

that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

5. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agrcement. It is expressly understood thal this
Agreement will only become effcctive if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Commiltec and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
containcd herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against
Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agrecment, counsel for the Investigative Committec may communicate directly with the Board

staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to


{7


hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsocver related to the
complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committce and its counsel agree that
Respondent and her counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed in order to respond to any and all questions thal may be addressed to the Investigative

Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agrcement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions sct out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does nat

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shail be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board pancl members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seck acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the casc, and Respondent further
agrtces that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

herself, her exccutors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of

Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and cach of their members, agents and



employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by rcason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The Investigative
Committce hereby agrees to accept this Agrecment in full settlement of all claims related to the
complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrecs that this Agreement is 4 binding
and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee, which
contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Korum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrces that in the event
cither party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrces that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Casts. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover rcasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to comply with terms. In the evcnt the Board enters its Order approving
this Agrcement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited hercin, the Board would
then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in
addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the Board in accordance
with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to
Mi
MH
Mt
if
it


a = SS > i

reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement, may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts. Hr _ )
YA
Dated this /7 dayfy A __of 2011. Dated thi (6 2011,
EBay : Ak
E, Bega’, Esq" 7” Edward J, Lemans, Esq.
Attomey for the Investigative Committee Attomey for Respondent
UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
( K ahtout

Lorraine Chun, M.D., Respondent

Dated this 15 day of [February , 2011.

Subscribed and sworn to before me

this day of 2011.

Notary Public



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11" day of

March 2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $4,079.99.

Crd _

Charles N. Held, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

