_ W WN



(i


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

a a
In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 10-7440-1
Complaint Against )
) FILED
WILLIAM LEE BOREN, M.D., ) ;
) SEP 2 0 20ti
Respondent. ) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
) By: Cs hence

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision on the Complaint filed herein
before the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter "Board," on Friday,
September 9, 2011, at the Board's offices located at 1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301, Reno,
Nevada, 89502, and by video conference at the offices of the Nevada State Board of Dental
Examiners located at 6010 S. Rainbow Boulevard, Building A, Suite 1, Las Vegas, Nevada
89118. Respondent William Lee Boren, M.D., hereinafter "Respondent," was present at the
Board meeting in Las Vegas with his attorney, John Curtas, Esq.

The members of the Board participating in the decision were:
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Michael J. Fischer, M.D.,
Ms. Donna Ruthe and Mrs. Sue Lowden. Harry Ward, J.D., Deputy Attorney General, acted
as legal counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the Complaint and exhibits admitted in this
matter, as well as the Synopsis of Record prepared by the hearing officer who presided over
the hearing and the transcript of the hearing, proceeded to make a decision pursuant to the
provisions of NRS Chapters 233B and 630.

Mt



The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER in this matter as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Respondent held a license to practice as a physician in the state of Nevada at all
relevant times.
Il.
. On October 28, 2010, the Investigative Committee filed the Complaint in this matter
alleging violations of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Hl.

On May 11, 2011, a hearing was held before an appointed hearing officer on the
allegations contained within the Complaint; five counts. Count V was dismissed at end of the
hearing pursuant to the evidence adduced at the hearing. Respondent was present and
represented by counsel, Patric Hooper, Esq. and John Curtas, Esq. The Investigative
Committee was represented by Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.

IV. .

Respondent was involved in a Medicare billing fraud case. That case went on for four
(4) years as Respondent's billing, patient treatment and diagnostic records were examined by
the Department of Health and Human Services and the Office of the Inspector General for |
fraud.

Respondent entered into a settlement of the matter with the Department of Health and
Human Services and the Office of the Inspector General in March 2009. As part of the
settlement, Respondent also entered into an Integrity Agreement with the same federal
entities, which includes oversight and supervision over Respondent until March 2014.

V.
The Board finds by reliable, probative and substantial evidence that Respondent

violated Nevada Revised Statute 630.301(9), as alleged in Count II, when he engaged in




conduct that brought the medical profession into disrepute by failing to disclose the
examination by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Office of the Inspector
General to the Board on three (3) successive license renewal applications in 2005, 2007 and
2009, and by being under examination for fraud arising from the Medicare billing and records
of Respondent's practice for over four (4) years.

Vi.

The Board finds by reliable, probative and substantial evidence that Respondent
violated Nevada Revised Statute 630.3062(1), as alleged in Count III, by failing to maintain
timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records when. his medical records and billing
inaccuracies led to the Medicare fraud allegations and ultimate settlement agreement and
Integrity Agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services and the Office of the
Inspector General.

Vil.

if any of the forgoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law, it
may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent.
Il.

Respondent was properly served with notice of the hearing via certified mail at the

address on file with the Board pursuant to NRS Chapters 630 and NRS Chapter 233B.
lil.

The Board concludes that Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(9) as described
above and as alleged in Count II of the Complaint and, that accordingly; he is subject to
discipline pursuant to NRS 630.352.

I
MH
Ml



IV.

The Board concludes that Respondent has violated NRS 630.3062(1) as described
above and as alleged in Count III of the Complaint and, that accordingly, he is subject to
discipline pursuant to NRS 630.352.

V.

If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding.of Fact,
it may be so construed.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

2. Respondent shall pay a fine of $5,000.00 for each violation found above
for a total of $10,000.00, to be paid to the Board within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of this Order;

3. Respondent shall pay the costs of investigation and prosecution of this
matter, totaling $5,887.16, to be paid to the Board within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of this Order;

4. Respondent shall attend and participate in twelve (12) hours of
Continuing Medical Education in Medical Ethics and/or Ethics and
provide proof of attendance to the Board; and

5. Counts | and IV of the Complaint are dismissed.

DATED this 2¢"%ay of September, 2011.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



CERTIFICATION
| certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of WILLIAM BOREN, M.D., Case No. 10-7440-7.

| further certify that BENJAMIN J. RODRIGUEZ, M.D. is the senior member of the
adjudicating panel of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, and its President, and
that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such; and that the signature affixed to the
foregoing ORDER is the signature of said BENJAMIN J. RODRIGUEZ, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this 27 day of September, 2011.

VALERIE J. CLARK, BSN, RHU, LUTCF
Secretary-Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

