BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 10-8162-1
Complaint Against } F I LE D
JOEL WASHINSKY, M.D., ) MAR 14 2011
) NEVADA BANE BOARD OF
INERS
Respondent. By: awa pibaaas

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D, Theodore Berndt, M.D. and Ms. Valerie Clark by and through counsel, Lyn
E. Beggs, Esq., and Joel Washinsky, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel A. Maria
Maskall, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on May 5, 2010, the Board’s IC filed an Order of Summary Suspension,
suspending Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada and subsequently on
May 26, 2010 filed a Complaint in the above referenced matter charging Respondent with
engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (NRS
Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: one count of dependency on controlled substances as
set forth in count I of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(8); one count of engaging in
conduct which is a violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy as set forth in
count II of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(c); and two counts of administering,
dispensing or prescribing a controlled substance or dangerous drug except as authorized by law as
set forth in counts HI and IV of the Complaint, violations of NRS 630.306(3); and
il
iif

nN


WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands
it, and has consulted with competent counsel A. Maria Maskall, Esq., concerning the nature and
significance of the Complaint and is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to the
Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes
that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act
and after due consideration concedes that he is in violation of the Medical Practice Act as set forth
in counts I, [ and III of the Complaint; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,
covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the
Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be
entered herein by the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: one count of dependency on controlled
substances as set forth in count 1 of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(8); one count of
engaging in conduct which is a violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy as

set forth in count II of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(c); and one count of

wo

Na


administering, dispensing or prescribing a controlled substance or dangerous drug except as
authorized by law as set forth in count IU of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.3063) and
ordering that Respondent's license to practice medicine be suspended for a period of forty-eight
(48) months. Respondent shall receive ten (10) months credit for the time his license has been
suspended since May 2010; the remainder of the suspension shall be stayed and Respondent shall
be placed on probation for a period of sixty (60) months with the following terms and conditions:

a) Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

b) Respondent shall complete his contract with the PRN-PRN program through Monte
Vista Hospital and shall comply with all terms of his contract;

c) Respondent shall submit to any additional random hair or urine screens as required
by the Board and shall be responsible for any costs associated with the required tests;

d) Respondent shall provide the Compliance Officer of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners with the best and most expeditious manner of contacting him;

e) Respondent shall provide the Compliance Officer with a list of all controlled
substances he is prescribed during the course of his probation.

A Respondent shall not prescribe, dispense or administer any controlled substances
without the proper authorization from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) and the Nevada State
Board of Pharmacy;

g) Respondent shall be subject to reviews of any of this records related to the ordering
of any wholesale drugs, the dispensing, administration and prescribing of any controlled substances
and patient care if necessary;

h) Respondent shall inform his employer of the terms of his probation;

i) Respondent shall notify the Compliance Officer of where he will be practicing
medicine at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to starting to practice;

jp Respondent shall pay any costs associated with monitoring of his compliance with
these terms of probation. Respondent shall remit to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

such costs within thirty (30) days of being presented with an invoice for said compliance costs;


bs

NS
Nw

k) Any positive drug screen for any controlled substance or dangerous drug that
Respondent does not hold a valid prescription for shall result in the immediate suspension of his
license pending proceedings to determine whether or not to impose the stayed suspension of his
license.

1) Respondent shall sign any necessary releases to allow the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners to monitor his compliance with the terms of his probation, including
releases with all treatment provides and physicians from whom he receives prescriptions for, is
administered or dispensed any controlled substance, schedule I-IV.

m) Should Respondent be released from his contract with the PRN-PRN program
prior to the end of the term of his probation and should he remain in compliance with all terms
of his probation through the entirety of the term, Respondent may make a written request to the
Board that his probation be terminated and that all terms and conditions of his probation be
lifted. Respondent would be responsible to provide any requested additional proof of
compliance with all conditions of this Agreement and, if requested, appear in front of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners at a regularly scheduled Board meeting prior to the
termination of his probationary status.

It is further ordered that Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall be reinstated.
Respondent shall further be ordered to reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses
incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $4698.50, not
including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. The costs and fines shall be
paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within one hundred eighty (180) days of
the acceptance of this Agreement by the Board. It shall be further ordered that count IV of the
Complaint is dismissed.

2. Jurisdiction, Respondent was at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the

Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.



bo
tN

4, Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently and with the advice of above identified counsel.
In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein,
Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS
Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection
with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right
to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall
have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS
Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection
with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly with the Board
staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made

or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his

_




counsel until] the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel] agree that
Respondent and his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed
in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

6. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board, In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

7. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

8. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state
of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of

bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,

Nw


executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The Investigative
Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the
complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

9. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee,
which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction subject to the

provisions set forth in Paragraph 7 above.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents
to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties covenant and agree that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board
would then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against
Respondent in addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the
Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to
Mt
Ml
Ml
Mf
Ml
Hi

i)


reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement, may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

\ sh
Dated this /97 day fb of 2011. Dated t me - , 2011.
e: i es fi? a -
n E, Beggs, Esq.O) t “Maria ria Maskell, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee _~ Attorney for Respondent
~ (a AND AGREED:
LNW tobia) mb

Joel iv fhinsky, M.D., Responffent

Dated this {Wh day of FEA __, 2011.

Subscribed and sworn to before me

this Wi day of FEbUALY 2011.

Ge “tome CALA KEYES |) Ky

{th BIZ a Notary Public State of Nevada Aalhe ey
ey, No. 94-1349.) - Ls
§ SHE My appt. oxp. Jan. 13, 20No} ary Public

& Ww WN



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11" day of

March 2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $4,698.50.

BTRAn__

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

