

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and Case No. 10-9809-2

Complaint Against

FILED
DEC 3 0 2011

NEVADA SJATE BOARD OF
: MEDICAL EXAMINERS
ys

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER

JAMES S. TATE, M.D.,

Respondent.

Meee Nice “eee Nee Sime” Sire Stee eee eee”

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision on the Complaint filed herein
before the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter "Board," on
Friday, December 2, 2011, at the Board's offices located at 1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301,
Reno, Nevada, 89502, and by video conference at the offices of the
Nevada State Board of Dental Examiners located at 6010 S. Rainbow Boulevard, Building A,
Suite 1, Las Vegas, Nevada 89118. James S. Tate, M.D., hereinafter "Respondent," was
present at the Board meeting in Las Vegas’ with his attorneys,
Robert McKenna, Esq. and Jacob Hafter, Esq.

The members of the Board participating in the decision were:
Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Ms. Donna A. Ruthe, and
Mrs. Sue Lowden. Harry Ward, J.D., Deputy Attorney General, acted as legal counsel to the
Board.

The Board, having received and read the Complaint and exhibits admitted in this
matter, as well as the Synopsis of Record prepared by the hearing officer who presided over
the hearing and the transcript of the hearing, proceeded to make a decision pursuant to the
provisions of NRS Chapters 233B and 630.

Mil



The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER in this matter as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Respondent held a license to practice as a physician in the state of Nevada at all
relevant times.

ll.

On September 29, 2010, the Investigative Committee filed the Complaint in this matter
alleging violations of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes ("NRS") and
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (“NAC”).

ill.

On August 9-10, 2011, a hearing was held before an appointed hearing officer on the
allegations contained within Count | of the Complaint. Respondent was present and
represented by counsel, Robert McKenna, Esq. The Investigative Committee was
represented by Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.

IV.

Patient A was a sixty-two (62) year-old male who checked into the emergency room at
University Medical Center (UMC) on August 26, 2006. He complained of abdominal pain that
was found to be mild with no abdominal guarding or rebound tenderness, and no fever or
chills were present.

Two days later, on August 28, 2006, Respondent took Patient A into the OR for a
laparoscopic cholecystectomy. During the laparoscopic procedure, dense adhesions were
encountered that made identification of the internal structures difficult. As a result, the
laparoscopic surgery was converted to an open surgery. The gall bladder was removed.

Numerous complications arose as a result of the procedures. Patient A remained in
the hospital for approximately one month. During the course of Patient A’s hospital stay,

Mil




Respondent performed four (4) procedures and spent over nine (9) hours in surgery with
Patient A.

The record shows that Respondent never consulted with a specialist in hepato-biliary
surgery on behalf of Patient A, and Patient A was never transferred to a tertiary biliary center
at any time for proper expertise in treatment of the numerous complications in anatomy and
arising from the multiple surgical procedures.

Patient A subsequently was transferred to his native country, England, and died there
on October 30, 2006.

V.

The Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence that Respondent violated
NRS 630.301(4) and NAC 630.040 when he failed and omitted to consult with a specialist in
hepato-biliary surgery at any time and failed to transfer Patient A to a tertiary center with
adequate specialization in biliary surgery in order to surgically treat Patient A.

Vi.

lf any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law,
it may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent.
Il.

Respondent was properly served with notice of the hearing via certified mail at the
address on file with the Board pursuant to NRS Chapter 630 = and
NRS Chapter 233B.

Hl.

The Board concludes that Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(4) and
NAC 630.040, as described above and as alleged in Count | of the Complaint, and, that
accordingly, he is subject to discipline pursuant to NRS 630.352.

Mt

ee Ww NN



IV.
If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of Fact,

it may be so construed.
ORDER
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

2. Respondent shall pay a fine of $5,000.00 within six (6) months of the
entry of these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order;

3. Respondent shall attend and participate in ten (10) hours of
Continuing Medical Education in biliary injuries arising during abdominal
surgery within one (1) year of the entry of these Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law and Order, in addition to the normal requirements
regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the
state of Nevada and provide proof of attendance to the Board; and,

4. Respondent shall pay all costs of the investigation and prosecution in the
amount of $29,623.39 within six (6) months of the entry of these Findings
of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

DATED this 307 day of December, 2011.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

BR W N



CERTIFICATION

| certify that the foregoing is the full and true original
FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the
Board of Medical Examiners in the matter of JAMES S. TATE, M.D., Case No. 10-9809-2.

| further certify that BENJAMIN J. RODRIGUEZ, M.D., is the President of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as
such; and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said
BENJAMIN J. RODRIGUEZ, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this 30°? day of December, 2017.

VALERIE J. K, BSN, RHU, LUTCF
Secretary-Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

