OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559





BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kKREK SE

In The Matter of Charges and Case No. 10-9883-1
Complaint Against FILED
MAR 14 201

JAMES EDWARD BEECHAM, M.D.,
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Mee EXAMINERS
Cy:

Respondent.

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, at
the time the Complaint was authorized and filed on June 3, 2010 in the above-captioned matter, by
and through Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and counsel for the
IC, and James Edward Beecham, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on June 3, 2010, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the above-
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Nevada’s Medical Practice Act, i.e., Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS), to wit: a violation of NRS 630.301(4); and,

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands
it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with competent counsel concerning the nature and
significance of the Complaint, and Respondent is fully aware concerning his rights and defenses to
the Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and
concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by

and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled,
and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to
disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 8, and he will be provided
with an opportunity to defend himself against the charges against him as alleged in the Complaint
at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws; and,

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in
the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical
Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/ Knewing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent had ample opportunity to be seek legal counsel concerning this matter,
including the Complaint, Settlement Agreement and previous Voluntary Surrender of license, and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly,
and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly and
intelligently, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the

Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on
the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in
said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the Complaint herein may be
settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further
proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved
by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and
Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory
rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on
the Complaint filed herein.

4. Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent is aware that the trier of fact, the Board,

may find a factual basis in support of the Complaint against Respondent. Accordingly, in order to
resolve the matter without incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
Complaint or to any other further amended complaint, and in exchange for the waiver of the
Respondent’s foregoing rights, Respondent has entered into this Agreement, and agrees:

a. The Board may find that Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds
for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: Respondent failed to use the
reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under the same or similar circumstances when
he failed and omitted to correlate the name on the pathology slide with the name to which the
diagnosis is assigned as indicated by the paperwork, a viclation of Nevada Revised Statute Section
630.301(4).

b. Pursuant to NRS §622.400, Respondent shall pay the sum of $1,195.21, the
current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter.
Respondent further acknowledges that he has already forwarded a check in this amount to the
Board and that upon the entry of the Board’s order adopting this Agreement it shall be accepted by
the Board. Should the delay until the Board's order adopting this Agreement cause said check to
become invalid, Respondent agrees to issue a new check in that same amount within thirty (30)

days of the Board's order adopting this Agreement.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



c. The terms of this Agreement may be reported as allowed by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suites, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this settlement or its administration.

6. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of seeking
Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and
communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on
his part or on the part of his counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters
concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its
counsel agree that Respondent and/or his counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where
this Agreement is discussed, and if requested, to respond to any questions that may be addressed to
the IC or its counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and

ordering that this case be closed.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

NO




8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent
further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either
party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial
District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

oc I, James Edward Beecham, M.D.,
Dated this @ ivy of Ja BuO 2011. hereby agree to the foregoing Settlement,
Waiver and Consent Agreement as to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners’
Case Number 10-9883-1 and the Complaint
filed therein.

fley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the tk
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners Dated this Uf of J theta , 2011.

fa Z Brsthen.

{apes Edward Beecham, M.D. , Respondent

Subscribed and Hen to before me
This Lf kt day of{ Uber 2011.

hone Xe

Koken Pubic ~

SIAO SHEN-HUA i
i
H

Bg Ip

g

SF fi,
ALS Notary Publ
fe Conntisgions 7135254
ly comm. expires Seat 17, 2071

sce ammcome



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11" day of March

2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,195.21.

BRA

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

