& Ww NY


- 16

' BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Rk“ *

Case No. 11-12859-1

FILED
APR 12 2011

. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

In The Matter of an Investigation of
MICHAEL KAPLAN, M.D.,

License No. 5983

Nemo Newer See See Nee ee”

‘undersigned counsel, hereby agree and stipulate to the following. The medical license of

ME EXAMINERS .
By: ___ _—

STIPULATION AND ORDER

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (hereinafter

“Committee”) and Michael Kaplan, M.D. (hereinafter “Dr. Kaplan”), by and through the

Dr. Kaplan was summarily suspended on March 14, 2011, pursuant to NRS 630.326(1), by the
Committee, based upon preliminary investigation findings that the suspension of the license was
necessary to remove a risk of imminent harm to the health, safety and welfare of the public.

The imminent risk of harm to the health, safety and welfare of the public having been
ameliorated by the following terms of this Stipulation, the parties agree that the license of
Dr. Kaplan to practice medicine in the state of Nevada shall be reinstated subject to the following: .

1) Pr. Kaplan may start practicing medicine immediately upon the filing of this
Stipulation and Order. Dr. Kaplan may perform the procedures noted in Attachment A
to this Stipulation once the following conditions are met by appropriate voluntary
monitoring being put in place as set further forth below

.2) Dr. Kaplan agrees that any procedure noted in Attachment ‘A to this Stipulation,

performed i in an office setting (rather than a hospital or ambulatory surgery center) will
be voluntarily monitored by a third-party monitor. The monitor will check for proper
infection control procedures, including but not limited to, the use of disposable, single-
use-only medical devices and the appropriate cleaning and sterilization of reusable

medical devices. Said voluntary monitoring shall be in place for a period of ninety (90)


1]





4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

days which will be counted consecutively beginning from the first date a monitor is in
place in Dr. Kaplan’s office. .

The condition of appropriate voluntary monitoring does not apply to any procedure
performed by Dr. Kaplan in a hospital or ambulatory surgery center. It is agreed that

procedures performed by Dr. Kaplan in a hospital or ambulatory surgery center are not| ”

_ subject to the condition of voluntary monitoring.

The third party monitor will be subject to approval by the Committee prior to the
commencement of voluntary monitoring and all costs associated with said monitoring
shall be paid by Dr. Kaplan.

Dr. Kaplan shall, for the period of voluntary monitoring, perform the procedures noted
on Attachment A on pre-designated days arranged with and agreed to by the monitor |-
and Dr. Kaplan.

Dr. Kaplan shall submit to random site, inspections by Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners staff and/or authorized inspectors/staff of the Nevada State Board of Health
and its subdivisions and/or any other authorized third party inspector to ensure that
appropriate infection control procedures are followed and inspect any inventories or
documentation related to disposable, single-use-only medical devices, appointment
calendars and patient records during the pendency of the proceedings related to formal
complaint number 11-8547-1 and shall pay any costs associated with such inspections.
Dr. Kaplan does not currently perform any procedures in-office with the use of general
anesthesia, ‘conscious sedation or deep sedation. However, should he perform any
procedures with the use of general anesthesia, conscious sedation or deep sedation in
the future, such will be performed only after obtaining. the requisite permit as set forth
in NRS 449.435 to 449.448. |
Should the Committee find that Dr. Kaplan has violated the terms of this Stipulation, it
may suspend his license to practice medicine immediately and ‘shall set a date for a
hearing to be held within forty-five (45) days to determine if the suspension should

“suspension continue while legal case number 11-8547-1 is pending.

FDp


oD ON KA




9) The parties stipulate that this agreement does not affect case number !1- 8547- 1,
However, evidence of Dr. Kaplan’s good faith compliance with the conditions set forth
herein may be considered in connection with any hearing on or resolution of legal case
number 11-8547-1. Nothing. in this voluntary agreement and stipulation shall
constitute an admission of negligence or fault on the part of Dr. Kaplan. It is
understood and agreed that the intent of this Stipulation is to allow Dr. Kaplan’s
license to be reinstated and that he may practice within his area of specialty, urology,
without restriction, but subject to the voluntary and temporary conditions set forth
above.

10) The parties further stipulate that the Order to ‘Show Cause hearing set for April 13,
2011, in Las Vegas, is vacated based upon the resolution of the suspension of license

set forth in this stipulation.

he f—
Dated this kal day of April, 2011. Dated this be day of April, 2011.
a i
Oh bre ® | XG |
Patricia Daehnke, Esq. . - Lyn E. Beggs, Esq. '
Attorney for Michael Kaplan, M.D. Attorney for the Investigative Committee

IT IS SO ORDERED.
cl my ;
Dated thisl 2- day of April 20

pide D Qa.

Patrick Dolan, Esq.
Hearing Officer

ATTACHMENT “A”

Cystoscopy

Cystoscopy with removal of stent

Dilation of stricture

Incision and drainage of abscess, groin or scrotum
Instillation of medication into the bladder including heparin, lidocaine, sodium
bicarbonate and bcg

Placement of catheter

Placement of suprapubic catheter

Placement of fiducial markers

Removal of scrotal and penile lesions

Transrectal ultrasound with biopsy of the prostate
Ultrasound of the scrotum if biopsies are being taken

Vasectomy
