

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KER UR

Case No. 11-12861-1

FILED
DEC - 5 201

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By:

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against

ROMUALDO ARAGON, JR., M.D., }
Respondent. }


SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
{WIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed of
Theodore B. Bemdt, M.D., Ms. Valerie Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael Fischer, M.D.
by and through counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Romualdo Aragon, Jr., M.D. (Respondent), by
and through his counsel Jack C. Juan, Esq. and Jack F, DeGree, Esg., of the law firm of Marquis
Aurbach Coffing, as follows:

WHEREAS, on July 25, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above referenced
matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: one count of signing a
blank prescription form, a violation of NRS 630.304(4) as set forth in Count I of the Complaint;
one count of aiding, assisting employing or advising, directly or indirectly, an unlicensed person to
engage in the practice of medicine, a violation of NRS 630.305(1)(e) as set forth in Count II of the
Complaint; one count of engaging in conduct which is intended to deceive, a violation of
NRS 630.306(2)(a) as set forth in Count WI of the Complaint; and one count of engaging in
conduct which the Board has determined is a violation of the standards of practice established by

regulation of the Board, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(b) as set forth in Count IV of the

Complaint; and

Mit Dy
A a

eo ts
Ww



WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands
it, and has consulted with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of the
Complaint and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to the complaint as

well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has

engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement js entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that

if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,

covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the
Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to

the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees a stipulated resolution in

this matter is fair and appropriate and that an order may be entered herein by the Board finding that
Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act

to wit! one count of signing blank prescription forms as set forth in Count J of the Complaint, a

violation of NRS 630.304(4). The Board shalt further order that the following discipline shall be

imposed:
a) Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;
b) Respondent shall pay a fine of $2000; N ye ne!
maith AN Av
N v



c) Respondent shall complete six hours of continuing medical education (CME) on
the topic of ethics in addition to those hours required to maintain licensure. Said CME
credits are to be completed within twelve months of the adoption and acceptance of this

Agreement by the Board and shall be pre-approved by the chair of the Investigative

Committee;

d) Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred
in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $1955.89, not
including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. The costs and fine

shall be paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within ninety (90) days of

the acceptance of this Agreement by the Board.
{t shall be further order that counts II, II and IV of the Complaint be dismissed.
2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the

above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada

subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the

Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Waiver_of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with the advice of above identified counsel. In

connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein,

Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to

the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and
NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in

connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said

Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Cormplaint, atid Respondent further agrees

that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be

settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further

g, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by
nt shall have all rights

proceedin
the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and Responder

ider or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada,

I

arising ul

ze Ww bt

oUF RN

NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply
to Respondent in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4, Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of secking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may comumnicate directly with the Board
staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made
or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement 1s discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that
Respondent and his counsel, may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative

Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

5. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative

Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph }.

6. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms. covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be

null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement



regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

7. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state

of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and

employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of

bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,

executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that

Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or

entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The Investigative

Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the

complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

8. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee,

which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

9, Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents

to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

10. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees. n
sf
me,
es
W


li
1S


ran

11. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board

would then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against

Respondent in addition to that included herein for the subject’s violation of an Order of the

Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to

reimburse the Board for monies agréed to be paid as a condition of settlement, may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

nd
Dated this A__ day ot Noveylaer201 1.

JA a

Lp E. Beggs, Esq. oe

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Romuuldo Atdgon, J rJ/MLD. Respondent

Dated this tSSaay of Yerewton , 2011,

Dated this \~ day of Havewhe~ 2011.

By: VAN
feck P Juan, Esq.
JackF. DeGree, Esq.
Marquis Aurbach Coffing
1000! Park Run Drive
Las Vegas, NV 89145
Attorneys for Respondent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the ond day of December

2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,955.89.


Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

