
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

eke RS

| In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-11907-1


Complaint Against ) FILED

RONALD CURTIS KOE, M.D., ) DEC - 5 2011
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. ) ay. MEDIAL EXAMINERS


SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the
Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board)
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF,
Member, Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Ronald Curtis Koe, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on April 6, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the above-
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Nevada’s Medical Practice Act, i.c., Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS), to wit: a violation of NRS Section 630.301(4), NAC 630.040; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his counsel,
Keith A. Weaver, Esq., concerning the nature and significance of the formal Complaint, and
Respondent is fully aware concerning his tights and defenses to the formal Complaint as well as
the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has violated
one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by

and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this





Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled,
and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to
disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 8, and he will be provided
with an opportunity to defend himself against the charges against him as alleged in the formal
Complaint at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws; and,

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
State of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/_ Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.

Respondent is represented by Keith A. Weaver, Esq. in this matter and has had ample
opportunity to review this agreement, the formal Complaint filed in this matter and related factual
basis with said legal counsel. Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this
Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly and
intelligently, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the

Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory

Ao uM tf

o sl

tights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding.on
the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint and the adjudication of
the charges in said formal Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the formal

Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a

|| hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this

Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall
be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter
233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the proceeding on the formal Complaint filed herein.

4, Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent is aware that the trier of fact, the Board,

may find a factual basis in support of the formal Complaint against Respondent. Accordingly, in
order to resolve the matter without incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the formal Complaint or to any other further amended complaint, and in exchange for the waiver
of the Respondent’s foregoing rights, Respondent has entered into this Agreement’, and agrees:

a. The Board may find that Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds
for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: a violation of Nevada Revised Statute
Section 630.301(4) and NAC 630.040 by failing to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge as a
physician under the same or similar circumstances relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of
Patient A; and,

b. Pursuant to NRS §622.400, Respondent shall pay the sum of $2,568.16, the
current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute. this matter, along
with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners within thirty (30) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this
Agreement; and,

c. Respondent-shall pay a fine of $5,000; and,

' All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admiissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court.


a

d. Respondent shall attend and participate in ten (10) hours. of CME in
Subacromial decompression, Labral repair and resection of the distal claviculat bone (shoulder
surgery) in addition to the normal CME requirements. Respondent's attendance and participation
in the ordered CME shall be in person and is to be accomplished within one (1) year of the entry
of this Agreement, and Respondent is to provide proof of attendance and participation fo the
Board; and,

€. The terms of this Agreement is not reportable to the National Practitioner
Data Bank as understood by the parties.

5, Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and cach of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suites, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this settlement or its administration.

6. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal

Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that




Respondent and/or his counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, to respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel,

7, Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and
ordering that this case be closed.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9, Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrecs that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial

District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

tn



1!. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and-agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entjfled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees,

Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq. Keith A. Weaver, ea,
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent
Read and understood by:

ah
Dated this [7 day of Merve Ae, 2011.

Ronald Curtis Koe, M.D.




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 2™ day of December

2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $2,568.16.

Benjamin J. F odriguez, MLD., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

