OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

STTeN pA Neen

NR



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kRKRKKR SK

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against
Case No. 11-11907-1

FILED
APR - 6 2011

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDSCAL EXAMINERS
BY: See.

RONALD CURTIS KOE, M.D.,

Respondent.


COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
at the time filing of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Member, and
Valerie J. Clark, Member, having a reasonable basis to believe that Ronald Curtis Koe, M.D.,
hereinafter referred to as Respondent, has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby
issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as
follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 8231), and has been
so licensed since July 1, 1997 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A was a forty-one year old (41) female at the time of the incidents in question.
Her true identity is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her identity is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. Patient A initially presented to Respondent on January 5, 2004. She complained of
pain in her right shoulder, popping in the shoulder with feelings of weakness and numbness. Upon
examination by Respondent, she was found to have limited range of motion and pain. No evidence
of instability was found. X-rays were taken that showed no fracture.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502


4. After an MRI, Patient A returned to Respondent on January 12, 2004. The MRI
showed a partial tear of the rotator cuff and possible tear of the anterior labrum. Moderate edema
was also seen. Consequently, Respondent recommended surgery in order to perform right shoulder
arthroscopy with rotator cuff repair, possible labral repair and acromioplasty.

5. Surgery was performed by Respondent on January 23, 2004.

6. After the surgery, Patient A continued to have pain. Post-operative X-rays of
Patient A's shoulder were taken on February 16, 2004. The X-rays showed a wide decompression,
a resection of the inferior cortex with a minimally displaced fracture of the superior cortex of the
distal clavicle. The X-rays also failed to show signs that any significant acromioplasty had been
performed by Respondent.

7. Patient A last saw Respondent on June 22, 2004. Over the course of the preceding
months, Patient A continued to complain of pain in her shoulder despite continued physical
therapy and numerous follow-up appointments with Respondent.

8. Three (3) years later, Patient A presented to another orthopaedic surgeon. Patient A
still complained of pain in her shoulder.

Count I

9. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

10. Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of
a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances.

11. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

12. Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under the same or similar circumstances when he failed to properly perform surgery upon Patient
A on January 23, 2004 causing the complication of a right distal clavicle fracture and subsequent
symptomatic non-union; failed to accurately identify the distal clavicle fracture postoperatively;

and, failed to recommend appropriate treatment to Patient A for the distal clavicle fracture.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

frqeN can Aen

13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in Section 630.339 of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of service
of the Complaint.

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
desires to impose if it concludes there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice
Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this (77 day of April, 2011.

THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: Lg§ -———
<Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Deputy General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(UTPN FOO APPA

_ Ww

ND


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the Respondent
herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered
during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, that he believes the
allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and

correct.

Dated this if? day of A, “0 , 2011.
Charles N. Held, M.D. —

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 6" day of April 2011, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION & Fingerprint Information, by mailing via USPS certified return receipt mail to

the following:

Ronald Koe, M.D.
1710 W. Horizon Ridge Dr., Ste. 120
Henderson, NV 89012

Dated this 6" day of April 2011.

. o
Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

