Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688 -2559

a



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-12899-1
Complaint Against ) F I LE D
RONALD H. FOOTE, M.D., ) MAR 14 2011
) NEVADA STATE
Respondent. ) MEDIGAL EXAMINERS.
) By: “aes —_)
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of
the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Charles N. Held, M.D.,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Theodore B, Berndt, M.D., by and through
Edward Cousineau, Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Ronald H. Foote, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.. as
follows:

WHEREAS, on or about March 31, 2006, the Board entered a Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law and Order, wherein it found Respondent in violation of Nevada Revised Statute
(NRS) 630.301(9), and one of the resultant terms of the Order was that Respondent was to continue,
remain compliant, and complete his participation in the Board recognized diversion program he was
enrolled in at the time of the entry of the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order, and that
the obligations thereto were to be effective until June 16, 2010; and

WHEREAS, on or about August 7, 2009, the Board adopted the terms of stipulated
Settlement Agreement which found Respondent in violation of NRS 630,304(1), and one of the
stipulated terms called for Respondent’s medical license to be suspended for one year, with that
suspension stayed, and with probationary terms which included that Respondent shall obey all laws

and regulations during the stayed suspension; and

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688 -2559



WHEREAS, on or about March 27, 2010, Respondent engaged in conduct which is deemed
to have violated the agreed terms of the previously mentioned Order and Settlement Agreement.

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Nevada, as well as under the Medical
Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter
233B), including but not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him the right
to representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the might to
confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to written findings,
conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any
final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based on his understanding of the relevant facts and
circumstances, and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all of his
rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, the Medical
Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to
a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he desires to
settle and resolve the matter of the formal complaint against him by way of and in accordance with
this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board
has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that, if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions

enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688 ~2559




disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 9, and he will be provided
with an opportunity to defend himself against the charges against him at a regularly scheduled
hearing in accordance with all applicable laws.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending complaint and charges brought
against him by the Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to
the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada,
subject to jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical
Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel herein, whom

Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these
circumstances and Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of
above-identified counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States
Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that
may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the
complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint, the adjudication of the charges in said
complaint and the imposition of sanctions, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with
this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC had a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or more
instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice
Act. All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any

subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688 -2559



1]


Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other
use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding,
state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court. Should the
Board not approve this agreement, Respondent reserves the right to fully defend against the
allegations in the complaint at a formal hearing. Respondent fully reserves his rights to defend
against the allegations in the complaint, should they be raised in any subsequent civil suit to
which the Board is not a party.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, Respondent hereby agrees, and does not contest, for the sole purpose of this settlement
agreement, that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him finding that Respondent
failed to comply with an order of the Board in two instances, and that both instances were in
violation of NRS 630.3065(2)(a),

For the aforementioned violations, Respondent shall:

(1) Receive a public reprimand;

(2) Pay a fine in the amount of $2,000.00;

(3) Allow his license to be revoked, with that revocation stayed and that Respondent shall be
placed on probation with an obligation to comply with the following terms and conditions:

(a) That Respondent agrees to continue, remain compliant, and complete his
participation in the Board recognized diversion program he is currently enrolled in until he is
cleared to exit such program by the NPHP or its successor entity.

(b) That Respondent will be responsible for any costs involved in on-going
compliance oversight by the Board and shall reimburse the Board within thirty (30) days ofa
request for reimbursement of the same.

(4) Pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the
current amount being $1,328.73. This amount does not include any further costs that may be

incurred by the Board to conclude adjudication of the matter. Respondent agrees to pay the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688 -2559



aforementioned fine and costs, within one-hundred and twenty (120) days of the approval and
adoption of this Agreement.

(5) On successful completion of the foregoing requirements, Dr. Foote shall be removed
from probation, his license restored to good standing, and his revocation shall be rescinded. The
Board shall issue an order to this effect when the circumstances warrant.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their individual and representative capacities, from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have,
against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of
this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by
the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent
pursuant to the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or
acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and members of the panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.
Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters
concerning this Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint any and all evidence
that may exist in support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will

enter herein an order consistent with the terms noted in paragraph 5 above.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688 -2559



9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, not withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and Respondent further agrees that he
shall not seek to disqualify any such member.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a
binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction. Additionally, upon receipt of credible
information that Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of the
aforementioned order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s
license to practice medicine. The Board acknowledges and Respondent recognizes that he would
still maintain all statutory and regulatory due process rights available to him after the suspension
except that the suspension shall not be considered to be a summary suspension subject to the
provisions of either NRS 233B.170 or 630.326. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited
herein could result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a
violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). And, any failure to
pay any fine, fee, or cost ordered herein may also result in such legal action as determined to be
necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second

Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688 -2559

ee Ww WV

sa DN WN

12. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

ye A
Dated this 8 “day of Grae, 2011. Dated this 23"@y of Fed. , 2011.

Edward O, Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:


ae
el

we por
Z—-~7 Ronald H. Foote, M.D., Respondent

Dated this Z Zuay of EL ,2011.

— Subscribed and sworn to before me

TRANYLLE SIMMONS thisA3 day of FEV USGA _, 2010
Netary Public State of Nevada @
GH SNo. 08-5363-1
My appl. exp. Nov. 21, 2011 /

) ea
Notary wa



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 11" day of
March 2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,328.73.

Btn.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

