

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA |

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-29622-1
Complaint Against ) F I L E D
DAMON SACCO, M.D., ) SEP 12 2011
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. By: Nigh Exe! NER

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

! the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board) composed at the time filing of the

Complaint of Charles N. Held, M.D, Theodore Berndt, M.D. and Ms. Valerie Clark, BSN, RHU,
LUTCEF, by and through counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Damon Sacco, M.D. (Respondent), as
follows:

WHEREAS, on July 12, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a First Amended Complaint in the
above referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit:
one count of disciplinary action having been taken on a license to practice medicine by another
state, a violation of NRS 630.301(3); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the First Amended
Complaint, understands the nature and significance of the First Amended Complaint and is fully
advised concerning his rights and defenses to the Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that
may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds
for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act and after due consideration concedes that he
was disciplined by the Colorado Medical Board as alleged in count I of the First Amended
Complaint; and |

If


es

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,
covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the
Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resojve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be
entered herein by the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: one count of disciplinary action having been
taken on a license to practice medicine by another state as set forth in count I of the First Amended
Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.301(3); and ordering that Respondent be ordered to reimburse
the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this
case, the current amount being $465.55, not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize
this Agreement. The costs and fines shall be paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners within ninety (90) days of the acceptance of this Agreement by the Board,

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the

Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

be

No



3. Representation by Counsel. Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented

by counsel and wishes to proceed towards resolution of this matter as set forth in this Agreement
without counsel. Respondent understands and acknowledges that he may retain and consult
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement and agrees that if counsel is retained for
representation in this matter prior to entering into this Agreement, that counsel for the Investigative
Committee will be informed of such prior to Respondent executing this Agreement.

4. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently,
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or
that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed
herein, the defense of said Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and
Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the
complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing
or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is
not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and Respondent shall
have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
State of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or
that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

5. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the

Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions



contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly with the Board
staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made
or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that
Respondent and her counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the




disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state
of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The Investigative
Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the
complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee,
which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents
to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

“13. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board
would then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against
Respondent in addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the

Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to




reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement, may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this” daly _ of 2011. Dated this /Y__ day of Th fueY _—, 2011.
Ly E. Beggs, Esq Damon Sacco, M.D.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Respondent

Subscribed and nom epee me
This day of 2011.

Netery Public

State of Calttornia County of
MaAgiAl
Subseribsd and sworn to (or affirmed)
+” B TT
sotere mo on this'7 day of JuCy _, 20.11. b¥
Damon SA4@0,mb
exenred to me on the besis of satisfactory evidencs

to bo the pereon(e) who eppers™” } me

DIANE L. FEGLEY
Commission # 1879430
& Notary Public - Caitfornia
Marin County
Comm. Expires Feb 6, 2014



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 9" day of

September 2011, with the final total amount of costs due of $465.55.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

