OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559




BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kek KR S

In the Matter of Charges and
Case No. 11-30754-1

Complaint Against

FILED
JUL 21 201

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By:

meer

DANIEL A. WILLIAMS, M.D.,

Respondent.


COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Theodore, B, Berndt, M.D., and Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU,
LUTCF, at the time of the authorization of filing this formal complaint, by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the Investigative
Comumnittee, having a reasonable basis to believe that Daniel A. Williams, M.D., hereinafter referred
to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal
Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
September 9, 2005, Respondent’s license to practice medicine is currently in active status, and at
all times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the Board, pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

hi In October of 2010, in lieu of formal disciplinary proceedings, Respondent entered
into a Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order with the Medical Board of California, which
was later adopted by the Medical Board of California, and became effective on April 22, 2011.
(See Exhibit 1). The terms of the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order called for

Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of California to be revoked, with that

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



revocation being stayed based upon Respondent’s obligation to comply with various terms and
conditions during a subsequent three-year probationary term.

3. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that any disciplinary
action, including without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of the
license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary
action.

4. The disciplinary action related to Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of California, constitute violations of the provisions of Nevada Revised Statute 630.301(3).

5. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statute
630.301(3) and is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in Nevada Revised Statute
630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time
and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this day of July, 2011.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA ° )
COUNTY OF WASHOE _ )

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under
penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that
he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of
the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and
charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this of May of July, 2011.

bh edine [2 Raruclt

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 21" day of July 2011, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, SETTLEMENT,
WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT, along with FINGERPRINT information via USPS

e-certified mail to the following:

Daniel A. William, M.D.

Mt. Grant General Hospital
First & A Streets
Hawthorne, NV 89415

Dated this 21° day of July 2011.

Ve OF (ennwture

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
ZL
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: )
DANIEL ATHERTON WILLIAMS, JR. M.D.) f
) Case No. 02-2007-188040
Physician's and Surgeon's )
Certificate No. G37614 )
Respondent. )
DECISION AND ORDER

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby
adopted by the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs,
State of California, as its Decision in this matter.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on April 22, 2011.

IT IS SO ORDERED March 23, 2011.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

By: .

Hedy Chang Chair”
Panel B



EDMUND G. BROWN JR.
Attorney General of California
GAIL M. HEPPELL
Supervising Deputy Attorney General
JessicA M, AMGWERD
Deputy Attorney General
State Bar No. 155757
1300 I Street, Suite 125
P.O, Box 944255
Sacramento, CA 94244-2550
Telephone: (916) 445-7376
Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

E-mail: Jessica. Amgwerd@doj.ca.gov

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 02-2007-188040

DANIEL ATHERTON WILLIAMS, JR., M.D. — | OAH No. 02-2010020576
339 Cedar Drive
Greenville, CA 95947 STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND

P
Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 37614 DISCL LINARY ORDER

Respondent.

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-

entitled proceedings that the following matters are true:
PARTIES

1. Linda Whitney (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical Board of
California, This action was filed solely in the official capacity of the Executive Director.
Complainant is represented in this matter by Edmund G. Brown Jr., Attorney General of the State
of California, by J essica M. Amgwerd, Deputy Attorney General.
Mt . |
ill

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)



2. Respondent Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr., M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this
proceeding by attorney Robert D. Mcllroy, whose address is 46 Harrison Street, Quincy,
California 95971.

3. Onor about July 24, 1978, the Medical Board of California issued Physician's and

Surgeon's License No. G 37614 to Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr., M.D. (Respondent).
JURISDICTION

4, Accusation No. 02-2007-188040 was filed before the Medical Board of California,
and is currently pending against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily required
documents were properly served on Respondent on January 7, 2009. Respondent timely filed his
Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation. A copy of Accusation No. 02-2007-188040 is

attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
fully discussed with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order.

6. Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to be represented by counsel at
his own expense; the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him; the right to
present evidence and to testify on his own behalf; the right to the issuance of subpoenas to compel
the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents; the right to reconsideration and
court review of an adverse decision; and all other rights accorded by the California
Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws.

7. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up each and

every right set forth above.
CULPABILITY

8. Respondent admits that he violated Business and Professions Code sections 223 6(a),
2238, 2266, and 2234(c) as alleged in the Accusation, paragraphs 58, 60 through 64, and 67.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)


RPerRareas PBB seriauakaxnczte

9, Respondent agrees that his Physician's and Surgeon's is subject to discipline and he
agrees to be bound by the Medical Board of California’s imposition of discipline as set forth in

the Disciplinary Order below.
RESERVATION

10. The admissions made by Respondent herein are only for the purposes of this .
proceeding, or any other proceedings in which the Medical Board or other professional licensing
agency is involved, and shall not be admissible in any other criminal or civil proceeding.

CONTINGENCY

11, The parties understand and agree that facsimile copies of this Stipulated Settlement
and Disciplinary Order, including facsimile signatures thereto, shall have the same force and
effect as the originals.

12. Inconsideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree that
the Medical Board of California may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter

the following Disciplinary Order:
DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician's and Surgeon's No. G 37614 issued to
Respondent Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr., M.D. (Respondent) is revoked. However, the
revocation is stayed and Respondent is placed on probation for three (3) years on the following

terms and conditions.

1. ETHICS COURSE Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision,

respondent shall enroll in a course in ethics, at respondent’s expense, approved in advance by the

Division or its designee. Failure to successfully complete the course during the first year of

- probation is a violation of probation.

An ethics course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the Accusation, but
prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Division or its
designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have been

approved by the Division or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of this

Decision.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)



Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Division or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

2. NOTIFICATION Prior to engaging in the practice of medicine, the respondent shall

provide a true copy of the Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the Chief Executive
Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to respondent, at any other
facility where respondent engages in the practice of medicine, including all physician and locum
tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief Executive Officer at every insurance
carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to respondent. Respondent shall submit
proof of compliance to the Division or its designee within 15 calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or insurance carrier.

3. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS During probation, respondent is

prohibited from supervising physician assistants.

4, OBEY ALL LAWS Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules
governing the practice of medicine in California, and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered criminal probation, payments and other orders.

5. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Division, stating whether there has been
compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations

not later than 10 calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter.

6. PROBATION UNIT COMPLIANCE Respondent shall comply with the Division’s

probation unit. Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Division informed of respondent’s
business and residence addresses. Changes of such addresses shall be immediately
communicated in writing to the Division or its designee: Under no circumstances shall a post
office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business and Professions Code
section 202 1(b). |

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in respondent’s place of residence.

Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and surgeon’s license.


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)



Respondent shall immediately inform the Division, or its designee, in writing, of travel to
any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last, more than

30 calendar days.
7, INTERVIEW WITH THE DIVISION, OR ITS DESIGNEE Respondent shall be

available in person for interviews either at respondent’s place of business or at the probation unit
office, with the Division or its designee, upon request at various intervals, and either with or
without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

8. RESIDING OR PRACTICING OUT-OF-STATE In the event respondent should

leave the State of California to reside or to practice, respondent shall notify the Division or its
designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and return. Non-practice is
defined as any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which respondent is not engaging in
any activities defined in Sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program outside the State of California which has
been approved by the Division or its designee shall be considered as time spent in the practice of
medicine within the State. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a
period of non-practice. Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice outside:
California will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term. Periods of temporary or
permanent residence or practice outside California will relieve respondent of the responsibility to
comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the exception of this condition and the
following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws; Probation Unit Compliance; and
Cost Recovery.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically cancelled if respondent’s periods of temporary
or permanent residence or practice outside California total two years. However, respondent’s
license shall not be cancelled as long as respondent is residing and practicing medicine in another
state of the United States and is on active probation with the medical licensing authority of that

state, in which case the two year period shall begin on the date probation is completed or

terminated in that state.

Mf

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)


So uk ae es DS £§ F&F Ce riaaasz: ans fs

9. FAILURE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE - CALIFORNIA RESIDENT

In the event respondent resides in the State of California and for any reason respondent
stops practicing medicine in California, respondent shall notify the Division or its designee in
writing within 30 calendar days prior to the dates of non-practice and return to practice. Any
period of non-practice within California, as defined in this condition, will not apply to the
reduction of the probationary term and does not relieve respondent of the responsibility to comply
with the terms and conditions of probation. Non-practice is defined as any period of time
exceeding 30 calendar days in which respondent is not engaging in any activities defined in
sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program which has been approved by the Division or
its designee shall be considered time spent in the practice of medicine. For purposes of this
condition, non-practice due to a Board-ordered suspension or in compliance with any other
condition of probation, shall not be considered a period of non-practice.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically cancelled if respondent resides in California
and for a total of two years, fails to engage in California in any of the activities described in
Business and Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052.

10. COMPLETION OF PROBATION Respondent shall comply with all financial

obligations (e.g., probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the completion of

probation. Upon successful completion of probation, respondent’s certificate shall be fully

restored,

11. VIOLATION OF PROBATION Failure to fully comply with any term or condition

of probation is a violation of probation. If respondent violates probation in any respect, the
Division, after giving respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke probation
and carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. [fan Accusation, Petition to Revoke
Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against respondent during probation, the
Division shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation
shall be extended until the matter is final. .

Itt

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)


BNRRAE BSBRHSSEeR DT AEaAESHR AS

12, LICENSE SURRENDER Following the effective date of this Decision, if
respondent ceases practicing due to retirement, health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy the
terms and conditions of probation, respondent may request the voluntary surrender of
respondent’s license. The Division reserves the right to evaluate respondent’s request and to
exercise its discretion whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed
appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender,
respondent shall within 15 calendar days deliver respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the
Division or its designee and respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no
longer be subject to the terms and conditions of probation and the surrender of respondent’s
license shall be deemed disciplinary action. If respondent reapplies for a medical license, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

13. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS Respondent shall pay the costs associated

with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Division, which
may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of

California and delivered to the Division or its designee no later than January 31 of each calendar

- year. Failure to pay costs within 30 calendar days of the due date is a violation of probation.

14. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES- ABSTAIN FROM USE Respondent shall abstain

completely from the personal use or possession of controlled substances as defined in the

‘California Uniform Controlled Substances Act, dangerous drugs as defined by business and

Professions Code section 4022, and any drugs requiring a prescription. This prohibition does not
apply to medications lawfully prescribed to respondent by another practitioner for a bona fide
illness or condition.

Within 15 calendar days of receiving any lawful prescription medications, respondent shall

notify the Board or its designee of the: issuing practitioner’s name, address, and telephone

number, medication name and strength; and issuing pharmacy name, address, and telephone

number.
Itt
fit

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)

10/14/2010 08:28 FAX 3278643 DEPTARTHENT OF JUSTICE Mori
" '

I ACCEPTANCE

4 I have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
“4 discussed it with my attorney, Robert D, McElroy. I understand the stipulation and the effect it

4 || will have on my Physician's and Surgeon's. I enter into this Stipulated Settlement and

§ || Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, “ agtee to be bound by the

6 {| Decision and Order|of the Medical Board of California.

lf | ih bbhebs.

e| vara, 2/14 Avid MU

. DANIEL "ATHERTON WILLIAMS, JR., M,

9 Respondent
11 I have read and fully discussed with Respondent Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr, M.D. the
12 || terms and conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and
13 |] Disciplinary Order.| { approve its form and conte
4 | Coe
is{| paren, 277% £0

BERT. McILROY ‘

16 ot Respondent
17 a
18 ENDORSEMENT
19 The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully
20 || submitted for consifleration by the Medical Board of California,

, ner (5, A 00 EDMUND G! Brown JR.
22 || DATED Ca. a ' Attorney General of California

3 Gat M. HEPPELL
a Supervising Deputy Attorney General
maf : Geseea Ang p tech

Jessica M. AMGWERD
26 Deputy Attorney General
atiorneys Sor Complainant
$A2008307149
28 || 10477021.doe
. 8
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (02-2007-188040)

oo harkean ; IWATIOIN Ian WA7TNIb AEA? ‘GT 10N
Li

EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California

GAIL M. HEPPELL

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

JESSICA M. AMGWERD, State Bar No. 155757
Deputy Attorney General

California Department of Justice

1300 I Street, Suite 125
P.O. Box 944255 FILED
Telephone: (916) 445-7376 ) OF ;
Facsimile: (16) 327-2047 SACRAMENTO PAE TH 2024
BY. a1 fed Ale ANALYST
Attomeys for Complainant
BEFORE THE

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the ACCUSATION Against: Case No. 02-2007-188040
DANIEL ATHERTON WILLIAMS, JR., M.D. ACCUSATION

339 Cedar Drive
Greenville, CA 95947

P.O. Box 709
Greenville, CA 95947-0709

Physician and Surgeon’s Certificate No. G 37614

Respondent.
Complainant alleges:
1.
PARTIES
1. Barbara Johnston (Complainant) brings this Accusation solely in her .

official capacity as the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California, Department of

Consumer Affairs.

2. On or about July 24, 1978, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate Number G 37614 to Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr., M.D.
(Respondent). The Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate was in full force and effect at all times

relevant to the charges brought herein and will expire on July 31, 2010, unless renewed.


I]
i)

3. On September 9, 2005, Respondent obtained a license to practice medicine
in the State of Nevada, license No. 11613.

4. Respondent was issued a DEA Registration (No. AW8379871) to dispense
Schedules II-III controlled substances for his California practice at Greenville Medical Clinic,
located at 187 Hot Springs Road, Greenville, California. The DEA Registration No.
AW8379871 expired on December 31, 2007, and was not renewed.

5. On February 23, 2006, Respondent was issued a DEA Registration
(No. BW9639331) to dispense Schedules II-III controlled substances for his Nevada practice at
Mt. Grant General Hospital, located at 200 S. A Street, Hawthorne, Nevada. The DEA
Registration No. BW9639331 will expire on May 31, 2009, unless renewed.

6. On June 19, 2008, Respondent was issued a DEA Registration
(No. FW0888202) to dispense Schedules II-IV controlled substances for his California practice at
his home, located at 339 Cedar Dr., Greenville, California 95947. The DEA Registration
No. FW0888202 will expire, if not renewed, on May 31, 2011.

Il.
STATUTORY PROVISIONS

7. This Accusation is brought before the Medical Board of California,
Department of Consumer Affairs, under the authority of the following laws. All section
references are to the Business and Professions Code unless otherwise indicated.

8. Business and Professions Code section 2227 provides that a licensee who
is found guilty under the Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended
for a period not to exceed one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of
probation monitoring, or such other action taken in relation to discipline as the Division deems
proper.

Hl
Mf
i!

1)

9, Business and Professions Code section 2234 states:
§ 2234. Unprofessional conduct

The Division of Medical Quality! shall take action against any licensee
who is charged with unprofessional conduct. In addition to other
provisions of this article, unprofessional conduct includes, but is not

limited to, the following:

(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, assisting in
or abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate any provision of this
chapter [Chapter 5, the Medical Practice Act).

(b) Gross negligence.

(c) Repeated negligent acts. To be repeated, there must be two or
more negligent acts or omissions. An initial negligent act or
omission followed by a separate and distinct departure from the
applicable standard of care shall constitute repeated negligent acts.

(1) An initial negligent diagnosis followed by an act or
omission medically appropriate for that negligent diagnosis
of the patient shall constitute a single negligent act.

(2) When the standard of care requires a change in the
diagnosis, act, or omission that constitutes the negligent act
described in paragraph (1), including, but not limited to, a
reevaluation of the diagnosis or a change in treatment, and
the licensee's conduct departs from the applicable standard
of care, each departure constitutes a separate and distinct
breach of the standard of care.

(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or
corruption which is substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon.

1. California Business and Professions Code section 2002, as amended and effective
January 1, 2008, provides that, unless otherwise expressly provided, the term “board” as used in
the State Medical Practices Act means the “Medical Board of California”, and references to the
“Division of Medical Quality” in the Act or any other provision of law shall be deemed to refer

to the Board.


SDN NN


following:

following:

10. Business and Professions Code section 2236(a), states in pertinent part, the

§ 2236. Conviction of offense related to qualifications,
functions, or duties of physician or surgeon; unprofessional
conduct; notice of pendency of action; record of conviction

(a) The conviction of any offense substantially related to the -
qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon
constitutes unprofessional conduct within the meaning of this
chapter. The record of conviction shall be conclusive evidence
only of the fact that the conviction occurred.

L1. Business and Professions Code section 2238, states as follows:

§ 2238. Violation of federal or state statute or regulation
regulating dangerous drugs or controlled substances;
unprofessional: conduct

A violation of any federal statute or federal regulation or any of the
statutes or regulations of this state regulating dangerous drugs or
controlled substances constitutes unprofessional conduct.

12. Business and Professions Code section 2242(a), states in pertinent part, the

§ 2242. Prescribing, dispensing, or furnishing dangerous
drugs without prior examination and medical indication;
unprofessional conduct; exception

(a) Prescribing, dispensing, or furnishing dangerous drugs as
defined in section 4022 without an appropriate prior examination
and medical indication therefor, constitutes unprofessional
conduct.

13. Business and Professions Code section 2266(a), states as follows:
§ 2266. Record maintenance; services to patients
The failure of a physician and surgeon to maintain adequate and

accurate records relating to the provision of services to their
patients constitutes unprofessional conduct.



14. Business and Professions Code section 4040, states as follows:
§ 4040. Prescription; electronic transmission prescription

(a) “Prescription” means an oral, written, or electronic transmission
order that is both of the following:

(1) Given individually for the person or persons for whom
ordered that includes all of the following:

((D) Either rubber stamped, typed, or printed
by hand or typeset, the name, address, and telephone
number of the prescriber, his or her license
classification, and his or her federal registry

_ number, if a controlled substance is prescribed.

(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a written order of the
prescriber for a dangerous drug, except for any Schedule II
controlled substance, that contains at least . . . [emphasis added].

15. Business and Professions Code section 4060, states as follows:
§ 4060. Controlled substances; possession

No person shall possess any controlled substance, except that
furnished to a person upon the prescription of a physician, dentist,
podiatrist, or veterinarian, ... This section shal] not apply to the
possession if any controlled substance by a manufacturer,
wholesaler, pharmacy, physician, podiatrist, . . . when in stock
containers correctly labeled with the name and address of the
supplier or producer.

16. Business and Professions Code section 4170 states as follows:
§ 4170. Conditions; enforcement of chapter; prescriber

(a) No prescriber shall dispense drugs or dangerous devices to
patients in his or her office or place of practice unless all of the
following conditions are met:

(t) The dangerous drugs or dangerous devices are
dispensed to the prescriber’s own patient, and the

drugs or dangerous devices are not furnished by a
nurse or physician attendant.

(2) The dangerous drugs or dangerous devices are
necessary in the treatment of the conditions for
which the prescriber is attending the patient.


is

follows:

following:

(4) The prescriber fulfills all of the labeling
requirements imposed upon pharmacists by Section
4076, all of the record keeping requirements of this
chapter, and all of the packaging requirements of
good pharmaceutical practice, including the use of
childproof containers.

(6) The prescriber, prior to dispensing, offers to give
a wtitten prescription to the patient that the patient
may elect to have filled by the prescriber or by any
other pharmacy.

17. Business and Professions Code section 4172, states as follows:
§ 4172. Storage of drugs; secure area

A prescriber who dispenses drugs pursuant to section 4170 shall
store all drugs to be dispensed in an area that is secure. The
Medical Board of California shall, by regulation, defines the term
“secure” for purposes of this section.

18. Title 16 of the California Code of Regulations section 1356.3, states as

§ 1356.3. Secure Area Storage of Drugs in Physician’s
Offices.

For purposes of section 4172 of the code, the phrase “area which is
secure” means a locked storage area within a physician’s office.
The area shall be secure at all times. The keys to the locked
storage area shall be available only to staff authorized by the
physician to have access thereto.

19. Health and Safety Code section 11157 states as follows:
§ 11157. False or fictitious prescription

No person shall issue a prescription that is false or fictitious in any
respect.

20. Health and Safety Code section 11164 states in pertinent part, the

§ 11164. Execution and contents of prescriptions for schedule
Il, UL, IV, and V controlled substances; oral or electronically
transmitted prescriptions; record

Except as provided in section 11167, no person shall prescribe a

controlled substance, nor shall any person fill, compound, or
dispense a prescription for a controlled substance, unless it



“19

complies with the requirements of this section.

(a) Each prescription for a controlled substance classified in
Schedule I, III, IV, and V, except as authorized by subdivision (b)
shall be made on a controlled substance prescription form as
specified in Section 11162.1 and shall meet the following
requirements:

(1) The prescription shall be signed and dated by the
prescriber in ink and shall contain the prescriber’s
address and telephone number; the name of the
ultimate user or research subject, or contact
information as determined by the Secretary of the
United States Department of Health and Human
Services; . .

21. Health and Safety Code section 11170, states that “No person shall

prescribe, administer, or furnish a controlled substance for himself.”

22. Health and Safety Code section 11173(a), states as follows:

§ 11173. Fraud, deceit, misrepresentation

(a) No person shall obtain or attempt to obtain controlled
substances, or procure or attempt to procure the administration of
or prescription for controlled substances, (1) by fraud, deceit,
misrepresentation, or subterfuge; or (2) by concealment of a
material fact.

(b) No person shall make a false statement in any prescription,
order, report, or record, required by this division.

23. Health and Safety Code section 11174, states as follows:
§ 11175. False name or address

No person shall, in connection with the prescribing, furnishing,
administering, or dispensing of a controlled substance, give a false
name or false address.

24. Health and Safety Code section 11175, states as follows:

§ 11175. Possession of noncomplying prescriptions; unlawfully
obtaining controlled substances

No person shall obtain or possess a prescription that does not
comply with this division, nor shall any person obtain a controlled
substance by means of a prescription which does not comply with
this division or possess a controlled substance obtained by such a
prescription.


25. The Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. § 801 ef. seq.) and federal
regulation (21 C.F.R. §1300 ez. seq.) regulate controlled substances in the United States. 21
U.S.C. section 844 states in pertinent part, the following:

§ 844, Penalties for simple possession

(a) Unlawful acts; penalties

It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to
possess a controlled substance unless such substance was obtained
directly, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order, from a
practitioner, while acting in the course of his professional practice,
or except as otherwise authorized by this subchapter or subchapter
II of this chapter . ..

Til.
DANGEROUS DRUGS AT ISSUE

26. “Lortab”, a brand name for Hydrocodone, is an opiate and a Schedule II]
controlled substance as designated by Health and Safety Code section 11056, subdivision (e)(4),
and a dangerous drug as designated in Health and Safety Code section 4022.

27. “ orcet”, a brand name for Hydrocodone, is an opiate and a Schedule I]
controlled substance as designated by Health and Safety Code section 11056, subdivision (€)(4),
and a dangerous drug as designated in Health and Safety Code section 4022.

28. “Norco”, a brand name for Hydrocodone, is an opiate and a Schedule Il
controlled substance as designated by Health and Safety Code section 11056, subdivision (€)(4),
and a dangerous drug as designated in Health and Safety Code section 4022.

29, “Vicodin”, a brand name for Hydrocodone, is an opiate and a Schedule ITI
controlled substance as designated by Health and Safety Code section 11056, subdivision (e)(4),
and a dangerous drug as designated in Health and Safety Code section 4022.

30. “WMarinol” is a brand name for Dronabinol, a Schedule Il] controlled
substance as defined by Health and Safety Code section 11056(h), and is a dangerous drug as

designated in Health and Safety Code section 4022.

il

BRAND GENERIC NAME }| DANGEROUS }| CONTROLLED ]| INDICATIONS
NAME DRUG PER SUBSTANCE FOR USE
B&P C 4022 PER H&S CODE
Lortab Hydrocodone/APAP Yes Yes-C3 Pain
7.5 or LOmg /S00mg HSC 11056 (e) (4)
Lorcet Hydrocodone/APAP Yes Yes-C3 Pain
10mg 10mg/650mg HSC 11056 (e) (4)
Norco Hydrocodone/APAP Yes Yes-C3 Pain
10mg/325mg HSC 11056 (e) (4)
Vicodin Hydrocodone/APAP Yes Yes-C3 Pain
Vicodin ES | 5/500 or 7.5/750mg HSC 11056 (e) (4)
Marinol Dronabinol Yes Yes-C3 Appetite
2.5 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg HSC 11056(h) Stimulant

31. The Physician Desk Reference entry for “Vicodin ES” from the 59 Edition

2005, at page 528, states, in pertinent part, the following:

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and
the response of the patient. However, it should be kept in mind
that tolerance to Hydrocodone can develop with continued use and
that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related.

The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as
needed for the pain. The total daily dosage should not exceed 5
tablets.
Iv.
GENERAL BACKGROUND

Respondent’s California Controlled Substance & Dangerous Drug
Prescriptions Had False Addresses And/Or An Expired DEA Registration.

32. Circa 1992, Respondent began working at Greenville Medical Clinic,

which was associated with Indian Valley Health Care Clinic. Both Greenville Medical Clinic

and Indian Valley Health Care Clinic were located at 187 Hot Springs Rd., Greenville,

California. On December 31, 2006, the Greenville Medical Clinic closed. When Respondent

worked at 187 Hot Springs, he obtained a DEA Registration (No. AW8379871) for issuing

controlled substances at that address. According to Respondent, he worked for Greenville


Medical Clinic/Indian Valley Health Care Clinic until circa May 11, 2006.

33. After Respondent quit working at the Greenville Medical Clinic, he
continued to see his California patients at his home located at 339 Cedar Dr., Greenville,
California 95947, but did not notify the DEA of his changed address. Instead, from June 2006 up
until circa February 2008, he continued to use the 187 Hot Springs address and the Greenville
Medical Clinic prescription forms. He also continued to use the DEA Registration (No.
AW8379871) for the 187 Hot Springs address, even after the DEA Registration No. AW8379871
expired on December 31, 2007.

34. The local California pharmacist at Village Drug (located at 225 Main St.,
Greenville, California 95947), aware that Greenville Medical Clinic had closed, refused to accept
Respondent’s prescriptions written on the old Greenville Medical Clinic prescription pads. By
February 2008, Respondent changed his prescription pad to reflect his 339 Cedar Dr. address, but
used the expired DEA Registration (No. AW8379871) issued for the 187 Hot Springs Rd.
address.

35. According to Respondent, in December 2005, he began working at St.
Mary’s Urgent Care at Galena, located at 18653 Wedge Parkway, Reno, Nevada until May of
2007. In June and July 2007, Respondent prescribed controlled substances to his California
patient D.H., ? using the St. Mary’s prescription forms, even though patient D.H. was never seen
in Nevada, and Respondent no longer worked at St. Mary’s.

36. Circa May 2006, Respondent began working part-time at Mt. Grant
General Hospital, located at 1" and A Streets, in Hawthorne, Nevada 89415, three days a week
(Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday). On the other days, Respondent saw patients in California, at
his home located at 339 Cedar Dr., Greenville, California. On February 23, 2006 Respondent
obtained a DEA Registration (No. BW9639331) issued for his practice located at 200 S. A Street,

Hawthorne, Nevada, but did not obtain a DEA registration for his 339 Cedar Dr. address, even

2. The patients’ names are abbreviated herein in order to protect patient confidentiality. The
patients’ full name and medical records will be provided upon receipt of a properly executed and
served Request for Discovery.




though he prescribed, and on occasion, dispensed controlled substances there.

37. Respondent treated patient C.B. at Respondent’s 339 Cedar Dr. residence,
in Greenville California. On May 22, 2008, C.B. brought a prescription to the Quincy Drug
Store Pharmacy, located in Quincy, California. C.B.’s prescription, for a controlled substance,
was written by Respondent on a prescription pad with the Mt. Grant Hospital logo and letterhead.
C.B. told the pharmacist, Mr. Kibble, that he saw Respondent in California, not Nevada. Mr.
Kibble refused to fill the prescription. Respondent called Mr. Kibble within minutes and
attempted to phone in a Schedule [I controlled substance, known as Marinol (Dronabinol) for
patient C.B. Mr. Kibble refused to accept the prescription and told Respondent he was unable to
validate a legitimate practice site/address.

38. Although Respondent quit working for Greenville Medical Clinic/Indian
Valley Health Care Clinic on May 11, 2006, as a regular part of his practice, he continued to see
hundreds of patients in California at his home and prescribed them controlled substances, using
the DEA Registration from Nevada (No. BW9639331) and the expired DEA Registration (No.
AW8379871) with the 187 Hot Springs address.

B. Excessive And/Or Improper Vicodin Prescribing.

39. When treating patients at his California residence (339 Cedar Dr.),
Respondent uses his dining room or makes an occasional house call. Respondent’s California
practice is generally for patients with chronic problems (e.g., high blood pressure and high
cholesterol), and patients seeking medical marijuana recommendations. At the 339 Cedar Dr.
address there is no exam table, thermometer, scale, or formal record keeping system. The
patients pay cash, or not, depending on whether they have funds. He keeps blood pressure
medication (non-controlled prescription) in an unlocked box, and his house is kept unlocked.
The medication is neither labeled nor inventoried. He does not have patients fill out medical
history forms. .

40. Respondent’s CURES report from January 1, 2005 through June 4, 2008,

revealed a substantial number of high volume Hydrocodone prescriptions, mainly involving



_~.

Hydrocodone/acetaminophen (Vicodin ES or Norco). The high dose of Vicodin, include, inter
alia, prescriptions for patients J.D., B.D., A.L., and M.M.

41. | Respondent treated patient J.D., a male, who was injured in an industrial
accident in September 2002. From September 11, 2006, through February 25, 2008, Respondent
prescribed 7,200 tablets of Vicodin ES, which averages out to 423 tablets per month over a 17
month period to J.D. Although J.D. reported taking 8 Vicodin ES tablets a day, on the average
he was receiving 14 tablets per day. Respondent medically cleared J.D. for a Class I DMV
license on January 27, 2006 and omitted J.D.’s chronic narcotic use on the medical clearance
form.

42. Vicodin ES contains 750 milligrams of acetaminophen in each tablet.
Guidelines for safe prescribing unequivocally state that prescriptions should not exceed 4,000
milligrams of acetaminophen per day. Respondent prescribed more than twice the upper limit of
daily acetaminophen to J.D., and failed to monitor J.D.’s liver enzymes regularly. Occasional
blood tests did not show the hepatotoxicity from such dosing.

43. | Respondent’s medical records on J.D. do not suggest any alternative form
of oral analgesic was offered to this patient. J.D. was receiving epidural steroid injections from
his pain management specialist, Dr. Sprecht, however, Dr. Sprecht did not address the Vicodin
ES use in his notes. Respondent’s notes on J.D. were minimal; they provide no vital or exams
and some notes have no dates. In fact, from April 5, 2006 through April 6, 2008, Respondent did
not put any notes in J.D.’s patient records.

44. Respondent treated patient B.D., a female, who was married to J.D.
From September 11, 2006, through February 25, 2008, Respondent prescribed 6,800 tablets of
Vicodin ES, over a 17 month period to B.D.

45. Respondent treated patient A.L., a male. Respondent prescribed A.L. 240
Vicodin 5/500 per month. From August 2, 2006 through April 25, 2008, Respondent did not
keep any medical records on A.L. Although his high blood pressure was noted, it was never

addressed or treated, nor did Respondent record A.L.’s weight, lab work, or monitor A.L.’s liver


il


15°

\7

enzymes.

46. Respondent treated patient M.M., a female, who had chronic pain due to
scoliosis and multiple back procedures. Respondent prescribed M.M. Vicodin as early as
January 3, 2006, however, Respondent’s first clinic note in her chart was on and/or dated
February 8, 2008. There is no complete physical exam of M.M. in the chart. Respondent makes
mention of a breast mass on an undated note just before M.M.’s visit on February 8, 2008. There
is no follow up exam or recommendation indicated after a negative breast ultrasound on M.M.
was performed. The patient reported the mass had resolved.

Cc. Criminal Conviction For Self Prescribing Using Patient L.C.’s Name.

47. L.C. and Respondent have dated since circa 2004. In early October 2007,
Respondent phoned Village Drug for a Vicodin prescription for himself, and was informed by the
pharmacist that self-prescribing was illegal. Thereafter, on October 9, 2007, Respondent again
phoned Village Drug this time seeking a prescription for 90 tablets of Vicodin 5/500 for his
girlfriend/patient L.C. After phoning in the prescription, Respondent picked up the Vicodin
prescription himself (ostensibly on behalf of L.C), which was billed to L.C.’s insurance, and
Respondent paid the $10 co-pay. During a vacation with Respondent, L.C. discovered
Respondent had a prescription bottle of Vicodin with her name on it and confronted Respondent.
Respondent told her it was for his hip pain. |

48.  Respondent’s chart notes on L.C. indicate he treated her on October 9,
2007. The chart note from L.C.’s visit at his office that day reflects her complaint of abdominal
and low back pain. The exam states she had lower abdominal tendemess, but no urinalysis was
performed nor were investigations or follow up ordered.

49. Due to Respondent phoning in a prescription for himself using L.C.’s
name, on April 23, 2008, the Quincy District Attorney’s Office filed a criminal complaint, in the
County of Plumas, entitled, People v. Williams, Case No. 08-35204 against Respondent, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) Health and Safety Code section 11173(a) [procuring a

controlled substance through fraud, deceit, misrepresentation]; (2) Health and Safety Code


A Fe YB



section 11153(a) [unlawfully prescribing a controlled substance without a legitimate medical
purpose]; and (3) Health and Safety Code section 11154(a) [unlawfully prescribing,
administering, dispensing, or furnishing a controlled substance]. -

50. On September 5, 2008, in People v. Williams (Case No. 08-35204),
Respondent pled nolo contendere to a misdemeanor violation under Business and Professions
Code section 4060, and the other three counts were dropped.

D. Inadequate Record Keeping On Medical Marijuana (Prop. 215)
Recommendations.

51. | Respondent makes medical marijuana recommendations for some of his
California patients. The record keeping for these patients, (including patients E.H., R.R., H.M.,
D.H., and I.W.) however, is incomplete. For example, Respondent does not provide complete
history and physical examination, nor are there scheduled follow up appointments. These
patients’ temperature and weight are not taken, nor do they fill out patient history forms.
Additionally, there are no outside records detailing diagnostic work-ups, other medication
prescribed, or ongoing collaboration with the patients’ primary care physicians. The medical
records consist of informed consents and lists of the patients’ symptoms.

52. Respondent admitted he takes a medical history to see if the medical
problems justify using medical marijuana, takes the patient’s blood pressure, and writes a
recommendation, which he refers to as a “script”. In treating the patients seeking a medical
marijuana recommendation, Respondent does not ask the patient for their medial records, unless
there are “comorbid conditions”, nor does he speak with the patient’s primary treating physician.

53. | Respondent treated patient E.H. for anorexia and provided her a medical
marijuana recommendation. His only record on her is a copy of his Prop 215 medical marijuana
recommendation, and a note dated September 7, 2007.

54. Respondent provided patient R.R. with a medical marijuana
recommendation. His only record on R.R. was a note dated October 28, 2007, with the following

information written on it: (1) R.R.’s name; (2) the date of October 28, 2007; (3) the date of



R.R.’s birth; and (4) “Prop 215".

55. Respondent provided patient H.M. with a medical marijuana
recommendation. His only record on her was one page with the following information written on
it: (1) her name; (2) her date of birth; (3) her blood pressure; and (4) “Asthma,” “HTN”, “DM,”
and “arthritis”’.

56. Respondent provided patient D.H., one of his regular California patients
seen on a monthly basis, with a medical marijuana recommendation. Respondent’s records on
D.H. does not show a physical exam. The records reference neck and back pain, medication
prescriptions and blood pressure, and a patient request for an antidepressant. The records contain
several copies of ostensible prescriptions and/or medical notes concerning prescriptions with the
Mt. Grant General Hospital heading (dated July 2, 2007), and one with the St. Mary’s header
(dated March 2, 2007).

57. Respondent provided patient I.W. with a medical marijuana
recommendation. Respondent’s only records on LW. consists of the following three pages: (1) a
medical marijuana recommendation, dated June 5, 2008; (2) an informed medical consent and
verification on medical marijuana dated July 5, 2007; and (3) a handwritten note dated June 5,

2008, stating the following:

. “here for 215" renewal;

* “suffers from hepatitis, C, anorexia, and insomnia. He is stable”;
. the blood pressure and pulse;

. “exam negative”; and

° “renewed his prescription”.



v.
STATUTORY VIOLATIONS
FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Criminal Conviction)
[Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2236 (a)]

58. | Complainant realleges paragraphs 47 through 50 above, as if fully set forth
at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code
section 2236 for his criminal conviction on September 5, 2008, for a violation under Business
and Professions Code section 4060 [illegal possession of a controlled substance], in the case
entitled, People v. Williams, Case No. 08-35204.

SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Dishonesty/Corruption)
[Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2234 (e)]

59. Complainant realleges paragraphs 4 through 6, 32 through 38, and 47
through 50 above, as if fully set forth at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action
under Business and Professions Code section 2234 (e) for dishonest and corrupt acts. The
dishonesty and corruption includes the following conduct:

a. self-prescribing Vicodin under his girlfriend’s L.C.’s name on October 9, 2007;

b. using L.C.’s insurance to cover Vicodin he fraudulently obtained in L.C.’s name
for his own use;

c. continuing to use prescription pads with 187 Hot Springs address after he quit
working at Greenville Medical Clinic and after it closed;

d. using the St. Mary’s Urgent Care (Nevada) prescription forms to prescribe
controlled substances for his California patients;

e. continuing to use the expired DEA Registration (No. AW8379871) on his
prescription pads; and

f. on May 22, 2008, writing a prescription for his California patient, C.B., using the
Mt. Grant Hospital logo and letterhead.




il

THIRD CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Violation of Federal & State Laws Re: Dangerous Drugs & Controlled Substances)

[Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2238]

60. Complainant realleges paragraphs 32 through 57, above, as if fully set

forth at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action for unprofessional conduct under

Business and Professions Code section 2238 for violating the following federal and state statutes

and regulations pertaining to dangerous drugs and controlled substances:

a.

Business and Professions Code section 2242 [prescribing dangerous drugs
without a good faith prior examination of patients];

Business and Professions Code section 4040(a)(D)/Health & Safety Code §
11164(a)(1) [using incorrect addresses on California prescriptions for controlled
substances];

Business and Professions Code section 4170(a)(4) [failing to fulfill the labeling
requirements for his dangerous drugs kept at his 339 Cedar Dr. address];

Business and Professions Code section 4172/title 16 of the CCR § 1356.3
[failing to store dangerous drugs kept at his 339 Cedar Dr. address in an area that
is secure];

Business and Professions Code section 4060 [illegally possessing controlled
substances fraudulently issued in the name of L.C.];

Health and Safety Code section 11157 [issuing false/fictitious prescriptions by
using listing an expired DEA license and/or false address of practice];

Health and Safety Code section 11170 [prescribing a controlled substance
(Vicodin) for himself in the name of L.C.];

Health and Safety Code section 11173 [obtaining a controlled substance
(Vicodin) by fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, and subterfuge, by falsely
representing and prescribing it in L.C.’s name];

Health and Safety Code section 11174 [using a false address in connection with
prescribing controlled substances];

Health and Safety Code section 11175 [obtaining and possessing a controlled
substance (Vicodin) in violation of Division 10, Chapter 4 of the Health & Safety
Code]; and

21 U.S.C. section 844(a) [unlawfully possessing Vicodin without a valid order].


oOo ns nN

i

FOURTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Record Maintenance)
[Bus. & Prof. Code § 2266]

61. Complainant realleges paragraphs 51 through 57 above, as if fully set forth
at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code
section 2266 for unprofessional conduct in failing to maintain adequate and accurate records
relating to his medical treatment for his medical marijuana recommendation patients (patients

E.H., R.R., HLM., D.H., and LW. )

62. Complainant realleges paragraphs 41 through 43 above, as if fully set forth
at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code
section 2266 for unprofessional conduct in failing to maintain adequate and accurate records
relating to patient J.D. More specifically, Respondent failed to adequately document J.D.’s
complete vitals, his history and physical exam, the treatment plans, nor were there reports and
regular follow ups, and lab work in J.D.’s chart.

63. | Complainant realleges paragraph 45 above, as if fully set forth at this
point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code section
2266 for unprofessional conduct in failing to maintain adequate and accurate records relating to
patient A.L. (e.g., failing to document complete vitals , history and physical exam, treatment
plans, reports and regular follow ups, lab work). Further, from August 2, 2006 through April 25,
2008, Respondent failed to make any entries in A.L.’s chart. Likewise, A.L.’s high blood
pressure was noted, but never addressed or treated.

64. Complainant realleges paragraph 46 above, as if fully set forth at this
point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code section
2266 for unprofessional conduct in failing to maintain adequate and accurate records relating to
patient M.M. (e.g., failing to document complete vitals, history and physical exam, treatment
plans, reports and regular follow ups, lab work). Additionally, although Respondent prescribed
M.M. Vicodin on January 3, 2006, his first clinic note on her is dated February 8, 2008. After a

negative breast ultrasound was performed on M.M., there was no follow up exam or



io)

ir

recommendation given.

FIFTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Gross Negligence)
[Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2234 (b)]

65. Complainant realleges paragraphs 41 through 43 above, as if fully set forth
at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code
section 2234 in that his care and treatment of patient J.D. represented an extreme departure from
the standard of care. More specifically, as to patient J.D., Respondent’s gross negligence is
based upon the following conduct:

a. excessively prescribing Vicodin to J.D.;

b. clearing J.D. for a Class I DMV driver’s license on January 27, 2006, while
prescribing J.D. 14 Hydrocodone/acetaminophen tablets per day; and

c. failing to counsel and/or document J.D. about the addictive and potentially
dangerous drugs prescribed; and

d. failing to provide a thorough physical examination and/or keep records on his care
and treatment of J.D.

SIXTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Gross Negligence)
[Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2234 (b)]

66. Complainant realleges paragraphs 51 through 57 above, as if fully set forth
at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions Code
section 2234 in that his care and treatment of his medical marijuana recommendation patients,

(patients E.A., R.R., H.M., D.H., and LW. A.L., and M.M.) represented an extreme departure

from the standard of care. Respondent’s gross negligence of these patients is based upon the
following conduct:

a. not providing sufficient documentation showing sound history taking,
examination, or medical decision making; and

b. failing to collaborate and/or document collaboration with the patients’ primary
care physician.



SEVENTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Repeated Acts Of Negligence)
[Bus. & Prof. Code, § 2234 (c)]

67. | Complainant realieges paragraphs 32 through 66 above, as if fully set
forth at this point. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under Business and Professions
Code section 2234 (c) of the Code in that he committed repeated acts of negligence in his care
and treatment of patients J.D., B.D., A.L., M.M. K.S., D.H., E.H., H.M,, R.R., LW., and CB.

More specifically, Respondent’s repeated acts of negligence include the following:

a. Failing to maintain adequate and accurate records of his medical treatment to his
medical marijuana recommendation patients (i.e., patients E.H., R-R., H.M., D.H.,
and LW.);

b. Failing to provide sufficient information (e.g., little or no physical examination,

investigations, treatment plan, or alternative analgesics employed) in the charts of
his chronic opioid patients (i.e., patients J.D., B.D., A.L., and M.M.);

c. Over prescribing Vicodin to patient J.D.;

d. Over prescribing Vicodin to patient B.D.;

e. Over prescribing Vicodin to patient A.L.; and

h. Failing to have complete histories and physical examinations, scheduled

follow up appointments, outside records detailing diagnostic work-ups,

other medications prescribed, notification of the patients’ primary care

physicians in his Prop, 215 Medical Marijuana recommendation patients

charts (i.e., patients K.S., D.H., E.., H-M., R.R., and LW.)

VI.
PRAYER

WHEREFORE, Complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein
alleged, and that following the hearing, the Board issue a decision:

lL. Revoking or suspending Physician and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 37614
issued to Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr., M.D.;

2. Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Daniel Atherton Williams,
Jr., M.D.'s authority to supervise physician's assistants, pursuant to section 3527 of the Code;

3. Ordering Daniel Atherton Williams, Jr., M.D. to pay, the costs of

probation monitoring, if placed on probation;



4. Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and proper.

DATED: January 7,


Williams Jr Acc.wpd

BARBARA JOHNSTOW/ }
Executive Director

Medical Board of California
Department of Consumer Affairs
State of California

Complainant


