

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR ESR

Case No. 11-6816-1

FILED
DEC 16 201

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
EXAMINERS
By: _ C+.

STIPULATION AND ORDER TO
LIFT ORDER OF SUMMARY SUSPENSION

In The Matter of an Investigation of

LARRY YEE, M.D., )
License No. 4655 )


Larry Yee, M.D. ("Respondent"), by and through undersigned counsel, L. Kristopher Rath,
Esq., and the Investigative Committee ("IC") by and through its undersigned counsel,
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., hereby stipulate to lift the summary suspension of Respondent's license
to practice medicine as follows:

1. That the medical license of Respondent was summarily suspended on
September 2, 2011, by the IC, based upon preliminary investigation findings that the suspension of
Respondent's license was necessary to remove a risk of imminent harm to the health, safety and
welfare of the public;

2. That the imminent risk of harm to the health, safety and welfare of the public shall
be ameliorated by the terms below, and that Respondent may begin practicing medicine
immediately upon the filing of this Stipulation and Order to Lift Order of Summary Suspension
("Stipulation");

3. Respondent's execution of this Stipulation constitutes his consent, agreement and
approval of all the terms contained herein. Respondent hereby further agrees to comply with all
the terms and conditions of this Stipulation;

4. Should the IC reasonably believe that Respondent has committed any violation of
the terms of this Stipulation, it shall immediately suspend his license to practice medicine and

shall set a hearing to be held within forty-five (45) days to determine if the suspension should


continue while legal proceedings involving the formal Complaint in case no. 11-6816-1 are
pending;

5. Respondent shall avoid all psychostimulants, typically used for treatment of alleged
deficit disorder, like Ritalin, Dexedrine, Adderall and any other medications from this general
class;

6. Respondent shall be tested monthly for the foregoing psychostimulants at his own
expense. Respondent shall sign a new release of information in favor of the Board allowing the
Board to communicate and receive any and all information from any drug testing facility
performing the drug tests. The facility shall provide all test results directly to the Board, and the
Board compliance officer shall direct Respondent when and where testing shall take place;

7. Respondent shall undergo outpatient psychiatric treatment/counseling at least two
(2) times per month. Respondent shall execute a new release of information in favor of the Board
allowing the Board to receive monthly reports by the psychiatrist/counselor to the Board and any
other further communication required by the Board. Said psychiatrist/counselor shall make
mandatory monthly reports to the Board. The psychiatrist/counselor shall notify the Board within
twenty-four (24) hours of failure by Dr. Yee to appear for an appointment. All of this at
Respondent's own expense;

8. Respondent shall reduce the use of Klonopin and Xanax (benzodiazepines) to the
lowest possible degree to reduce anxiety pursuant to Respondent's physician's directive;

9. The Board shall monitor Respondent's medical practice a minimum of two (2)
times per month while the formal Complaint in case no. 11-6816-1 is pending. No less than two
(2) times per month and up to four (4) times per month, the Board and/or its agent, representative
or employee is hereby authorized to visit Respondent's practice and randomly select records, up to
fifteen (15) patients, for review;

10. Respondent shall provide a list of all new patients to the Board monthly; and,

11. | Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Board within forty-eight
(48) hours of the filing of this Stipulation in order to provide information regarding the most

expeditious method of contacting him;



12. Respondent shall notify the Board within forty-eight (48) hours of any arrest,
criminal conviction, including misdemeanors, or any admission for treatment of substance abuse
or psychological illness;

13. Respondent also agrees that if he is charged with professional misconduct in the
future, this Stipulation, and/or related orders, and/or records of his compliance, may be admitted
into evidence at a hearing regarding the alleged professional misconduct, at the sole discretion of
the IC;

14. Respondent agrees to pay the reasonable costs, if any, of monitoring his medical
practice by the Board to the Board and shall pay said costs within thirty (30) days of the due date
of any invoice presented by the Board.

15. This Stipulation shall remain in effect until such time as the formal Complaint in

BME legal case no. #11-6816-1 is resolved or by mutual consent in writing of the parties.

ae ,
Dated this Le day Loca éy- of 2011. Dated this sty day of Recsmbey 2011.
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq. L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent
IT IS SO ORDERED.

Dated this [of aay of December, 2011.

Ceding 1 Ashucly

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.
Chairman, Investigative Committee

