BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In The Matter of Charges and )
) Case No. 11-6386-1
Complaint Against )
) FILED
FRANK V. RUECKL, M.D., )
) JUL - 1 201
Respondent. MEDS AL EXAMINERS.
Ye ee

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC)

of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Charles N. Held. M_D.,
Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, at the time the Complaint
was authorized, by and through Edward Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the
Board and counsel for the IC, and Frank V. Rueckl, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his
counsel,

Edward J. Lemons, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about January 10, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a formal complaint in
the above-referenced matter charging Respondent of engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline under Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS), to wit: a one count violation
of
NRS 630.301(4); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the complaint, understands
it, and has consulted with competent counsel, Edward J. Lemons, Esq., concerning the nature and
significance of the complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses

to the complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and
concludes that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical
Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630); and
If

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the
Medical Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B),
including but not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right
to representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to
confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to written findings,
conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of
any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based on his understanding of the relevant facts and
circumstances, and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all
of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the
Medical Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited
to the right to a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order,
and he desires to settle and resolve the matter of the formal complaint against him by way of and
in accordance with this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that, if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to
disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 9, and he will be provided
with ///

an opportunity to defend himself against the charges against him at a regularly scheduled hearing
in accordance with all applicable laws.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending complaint and charges brought
against him by the Board’s Investigative Committee in the above-captioned matter, Respondent
and the IC hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in
the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada,
subject to jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical
Practice Act, and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel herein, whom
Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these
circumstances, and Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the
advice of above-identified counsel, watves all rights arising under or pursuant to the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter
233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on
the complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint, the adjudication of the charges in said
complaint and the imposition of sanctions, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by complaint here may be settled and resolved in accordance
with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding and without the right to judicial

review.
4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical
Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the complaint, and in recognition by the IC that Respondent has taken remedial steps to ensure
the events at issue cannot manifest themselves in the future, Respondent hereby agrees, and does
not contest, that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him finding that
Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice
Act, to wit: one count of malpractice related to the care and treatment of the patient at issue, a
violation of
NRS 630.301(4), that Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, and that the Respondent agrees
to reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of this case, the current amount being $2,029.71. This amount does not include the
further costs that may be incurred by the Board to conclude the matter. Respondent agrees to pay
these additional costs, in addition to the aforementioned amount, to the Board within sixty (60)
days of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board.

6. Release _From_ Liability. In execution of this Settlement Agreement, the
Respondent, for himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever
discharges the state of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their
members, agents and employees in their individual and representative capacities, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out
of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by
the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent
pursuant to the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or
acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and members of the panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.
Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters
concerning this Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint any and all evidence
that may exist in support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will
enter herein an order finding Respondent violated NRS 630.301(4), ordering that Respondent be
publicly reprimanded, and ordering Respondent to pay the costs and expenses of the
investigation and prosecution of this matter as provided herein.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, not withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and Respondent further agrees that he
shall not seek to disqualify any such member.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a
binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction. Additionally, upon receipt of credible
information that Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of the
aforementioned order, the Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s
license to practice medicine until Respondent complies with the term or condition. Further,
failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action being
initiated against Respondent for a violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with

NRS 630.3065(2)(a). And, any failure to pay any fine, fee, or cost ordered herein may also result
in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event
either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

we. a
Dated this /@ day of May 2011. Dated this !7 day of M ay , 2011.

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq. Edward J. Lemffas, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Re&&pondent
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Ffank V. Reuckl,“M._D., Respondent
Dated this 24 day of Apvil , 2011.



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement, is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 10™ day of June 2011, with the final

total amount of costs due of $2,629.71.

BTtsn_

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

