Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KARR KK

In The Remediation Matter of

Case Not Rep

JUN 13 2011

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDJCAL EXAMINERS
By:
STIPULATED REMEDIATION AGRE EMENT

THIS STIPULATED REMEDIATION AGREEMENT (Agreement) is hereby entered

Board Licensee 14819

into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners (Board), composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and
Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., by and through Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy Executive Director for
the Board and counsel for the IC, and Board licensee 14819, as follows:

WHEREAS, after its review of the underlying matter, the IC determined that evidence
exists supporting the filing of a formal complaint against Board licensee 14819; the IC also
believes that the circumstance is one that is appropriate for resolution by way of this Agreement;
and

WHEREAS, Board licensee 14819 recognizes he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including
but not limited to the right to a formal hearing if a formal complaint was to be filed against him, the
right to representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense to the formal
complaint, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to
present evidence and witnesses on his own behalf, the right to written findings, conclusions and
order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision

by the Board that is adverse to him; and

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Board licensee 14819
agrees to waive all of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not
limited to the right to a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and
order, and he agrees to resolve a potential formal complaint filing by way of, and in accordance
with, this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Board licensee 14819 understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered
into by and between himself and the IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly
meeting, duly noticed, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but
that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement;
and

WHEREAS, Board licensee 14819 and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board
approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Board licensee 14819 and the
Board’s IC; and

WHEREAS, Board licensee 14819 has reviewed and understands all the relevant facts and
circumstances of this matter;

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case in said matter 11-R-2,
Board licensee 14819 and the IC hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Board licensee 14819 is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
Medical Practice Act, and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Board licensee 14819 is represented by legal counsel

and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently, after his

consultation with counsel.

HI

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

aa

NI HN wT


3, Waiver of Rights. Board licensee 14819 covenants and agrees that he waives all

rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to
him in connection with the potential filing of a formal complaint, the defense of this complaint and
the adjudication of the charges in this complaint, and without the right to judicial review of the
adjudication determination. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this
Agreement shall have no force and effect and Board licensee 14819 shall have all rights arising
under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the future filing of a formal complaint.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Board licensee 14819

covenants and agrees that the IC has a reasonable basis to believe that he violated one or more

provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter, Board licensee 14819

hereby agrees that, in treating the patient referenced in the underlying complaint investigated by the
IC, Board licensee 14819’s medical record keeping was incomplete, a potential violation of
NRS 630.3062(1), and as a result:

a. Board licensee 14819 shall complete ten (10) hours of Continuing Medical Education
regarding medical record keeping. These Continuing Medical Education hours are to be in
addition to any Continuing Medical Education requirements that are regularly imposed upon
Board licensee 14819 as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada, and are to be approved
by the Board in advance of their accomplishment.

b. Board licensee 14819 shall perform thirty (30) hours of community service without
compensation, which are to be approved by the Board in advance of their accomplishment.

c. Board licensee 14819 shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses
incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the current amount of $5,475.44, plus

any additional costs that may be accrued subsequent in the disposition of this matter.

Hl

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


Co Oo


The aforementioned costs are to be paid to the Board within sixty (60) days of the
adoption and approval of this Agreement. All other aforementioned conditions are to be
completed within one (1) year of the adoption and approval of this Agreement.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein. In
the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for
the IC may communicate directly with Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who
would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Board licensee 14819 covenants and agrees
that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part
or on the part of his counsel, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the underlying complaint, any and all evidence
that may exist in support of the underlying complaint, and any and all information of every nature
whatsoever related to the underlying complaint against Board licensee 14819.

7. Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available

agenda of a regularly-scheduled and duly-noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly
understood that this Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the
recommendation of the IC for acceptance.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Agreement and ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be
closed, subject to completion of the provisions in Section 5. The Board and Board
licensee 14819 both acknowledge and understand that this Agreement does not constitute
disciplinary action and the Agreement is not reportable to any national database.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this

Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

a



covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Board
licensee 14819 agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Board licensee 14819 and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and
Board licensee 14819 further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent

evidence of bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Board licensee 14819,

for himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the
state of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Board licensee 14819 ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the
persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this
settlement or its administration, in connection with the underlying complaint

Li. Binding Effect. Board licensee 14819 covenants and agrees that this Agreement

is a binding and enforceable contract upon Board licensee 14819 and the Board, which contract
may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

12. Forum Selection Clause. Board licensee 14819 covenants and agrees that in the

event either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he
consents to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

13. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Board licensee 14819 covenants and agrees that in

the event an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement,

the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.


OU

a
Niveda State Baord of Medical Exanviners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL C

5S Loumihal Way #303


Reno, Nevada 59502
FESS GASSES

BL


WO

14, Failure to Comply With Terms, In the event the Board enters its Order

-approving this Agreement and Board licensee 14819 violates a provision of section five (5) of

this Agreement, the Board orthe IC may take any action it deems appropriate, jachuding, without

limitation, initiating disefplinary proceedings against him as if this Agreement had never been

put in place.

Edward O. Cousinean, [sq
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Exarniners

|, Board Lcensee 14819, hereby agree to the terms of the foregoing Agreement


o
Dated this Uday of i y ae 2011.

Board ligefiske 14819



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Stipulated Remediation Agreement, is approved
and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 10" day of June 2011,

with the final total amount of costs due of $5,475.44.

CAL

Charles N. Held, M.D., Presidént
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

