OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners ,
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559




BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-28177-2
Against: FI LE D
JOSE HIRAM ALVAREZ, M.D., JUN 09 2003
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MERICAL EXAMINERS
By: L

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for
the IC, Ian J. Cumings, J.D., Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and Jose Hiram
Alvarez, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted by his attorney, John A.
Hunt, Esq., of the law firm of Clark Hill, PLLC, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in Nevada.
His license was originally issued on December 5, 2003 (License No. 10765).

2, On September 28, 2022, in Case No. 21-28177-2, the IC filed a Second Amended
Formal Complaint (Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act.
Specifically, the Complaint alleges four (4) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Counts I-
IV); four (4) violations of NRS 630,306(1)(e), Practice Beyond Scope of License (Counts V-VII]);

1 All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof8

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


a1

and four (4) violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records (Counts
IX-XIN), By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in
NRS 630.352,

3, Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed, and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel concerning
the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has certain
tights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B and 622A, These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in
the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board concludes
that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between Respondent
and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for
consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent understands
that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the Board has
the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement. Respondent
further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the terms and

conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Dave
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL




B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions:

1, Jurisdiction, Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3, Waiyer of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

the Respondent, Respondent does not admit to Counts I-IV of the formal Complaint,
NRS 630.301(44)—Malpractice, but Respondent acknowledges there may be sufficient evidence
presented at a hearing, such that the Board could conclude that Counts I-IV could be proven, and
the Respondent agrees that the Board may enter a finding that he violated Counts I-IV as part of
this agreement, |

a, Respondent admits to Counts IX-XII four (4) violations of
NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in four (4) equal payments of one thousand seven
hundred eighty dollars and eighty cents ($1780.80). The first payment is due on or before July 9,
2023, the second payment is due on or before August 9, 2023, the third payment is due on or
before September 9, 2023, and the final payment is due on or before October 9, 2023. The total
amount of costs and expenses paid to complete the agreement is seven thousand one hundred
twenty-three dollars and eighteen cents ($7,123.18). The costs and expenses as well as the
payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine in four (4) equal payments of one thousand two
hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00). The first payment is due on or before July 9, 2023, the second
payment is due on or before August 9, 2023, the third payment is due on or before September 9,
2023, and the final payment is due on or before October 9, 2023. The total fine pursuant to this

4 o0f8

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
$600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

BR WW b

oo NN

i9

agreement is five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), The fine as well as the payment plan are subject
to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement,

d. Pursuant to NRS 630.255, Respondent shall immediately place his license
in inactive status, and it shall remain inactive until further order of the Board. Should Respondent
choose to reactivate his license to practice medicine, he acknowledges and agrees that he shall
perform twenty (20) hours of Continued Medical Education (CME) related to proper medical
record keeping within six (6) months from the date of his reactivation of his license to practice
medicine in the State of Nevada. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to the
CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the
State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630,153(1).

e, Should Respondent choose to reactivate his license to practice medicine, he
acknowledges and agrees that he shall not perform cosmetic surgery until such time as he has
completed the Certified General Cosmetic Surgery Fellowship offered by the American Academy
of Cosmetic Surgery, the cost of which shall be borne by the Respondent and provides
confirmation of such to the Board within sixty (60) days of completion.

f, This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

g. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

h. The remaining counts of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from
the Board’s corresponding investigative file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
comrnittees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,

causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway, Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

So woe AHA WDB WT Fe |FH DBO


unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein,

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel,

8, Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering

this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including


9600 Gateway Drive
(178) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521

an F&F Ww N



adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith,

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs, The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Tl

Hi]

/T/

‘It

/tl

HT]

/ft

TI

‘ff



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


a oe  ~  o

ta

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid

as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this Zo“day of fig 2023, DATED this 27. day of Wri , 2023.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL NEVADA STATE BO. OF MEDICAL

EXAM EXAMINERS
By: By: : we
DONALD K. WHITE, J.D. ZAAN J, CUMINGS, J.D.
Senior Deputy General Counsel Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive 9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521 Reno, NV 89521
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Tel: (775) 688-2559
Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.zov Email: icumings@medboard.ny.zov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for the Investigative Committee.

DATED this) 7 7 day ae a 3. DATED this Pai day os_Maachaons

CLARK AE LT
By By: Pa

JOHNVA. HUNT, ESQ. JOSE HU AM ALVAREZ, M.D.
3800 ‘Howard Hughes Parkway, Suite 500 Resportdent

——Tas Vegas, NV 89169

Tel: (702) 862-8300

Email: jhunt@clarkhill.com

Attorney for Respondent


ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 21-28177-2)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 9th day of

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559



June, 2023.
DATED this _ 9th day of June, 2023.

By:

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

AURY NAGY, M.D.
Board President

