(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners




BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Rea

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No, 22-29257-1
Against: FI LE D
KOFI EBENEZER SARFO, M.D., JUN 09 2023
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
EDICAL EXAMINERS
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Ian J, Cumings, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attorney for
the IC, and Kofi Ebenezer Sarfo, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted by
his attorney, John A. Hunt, Esq., of the law firm of Clark Hill, PLLC, hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1, Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada, His license was originally issued on November 3, 2004 (License No. 11205).

2, | On September 29, 2022, in Case No. 22-29257-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges two (2) violations of NRS 630.301(4), (malpractice) (Count(s) I-II); two (2)
violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), (failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete

medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient) (Count(s) III-IV); and

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

oOo COO OM ON


two (2) violations of NRS 630.305(1)(d), (charging for visits to the physician’s office which did
not occur or for services which were not rendered or documented in the records of the patient)
(Count(s) V-VI), By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

5, Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.


(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521




acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

3. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, Respondent admits to Counts III-VI, two (2) violations of NRS
630.3062(1)(a), (failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records
relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient), and two (2) violation of NRS
630.305(1)(d), (charging for visits to the physician’s office which did not occur or for services
which were not rendered or documented in the records of the patient).

b, Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of thirteen thousand two hundred and two
dollars and seventy cents ($13,202.70).

c Respondent shall pay a fine of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement.

d, Respondent shall take nineteen (19) hours of continuing medical education
(CME) on medical record keeping. Prior to the execution of this Agreement, and separate from

the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Board understands that Respondent has


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive



completed a two (2) day comprehensive medical recordkeeping course for nineteen (19) hours of
CME. The Respondent agrees to provide confirmation of his completion of this course within
sixty (60) days of Board approval of this agreement, These aforementioned nineteen (19) hours of
CME shall be accepted in lieu of additional CME requirements imposed upon the respondent as a
condition of this agreement but shall be in addition to the CME requirements regularly imposed
upon the Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC
630.153(1).

e, This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand,

g. The remaining counts of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from
the Board’s corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6, Release from Liability, In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
ot by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement, The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of

this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

5 of 8 ,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agteement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel, |

8, Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed

and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such

jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

ao & OBS DS

oOo Oo SOA


12, Attorneys’? Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed,
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEI
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BMRB RRBBR RF EB SBE BABA BTESEHEABSY

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid

as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

74 Sl
DATED this day of April, 2023. DATED this 7 lay of April, 2023.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE CLARK HILL PLLC

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS /

By: LA ~ :
(AN J, CUMINGS, J.D. ( JOHN A, HUNT, ESQ.
Deputy General Counsel 1700 Pavilion Center Dr., Suite 500
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89135
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 862-8300
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: jhunt@clarkhill.com
Email: icumings@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent

Nevada Ciééense No. 11205
Respondent


ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 22-29257-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 9th day of
June, 2023.
DATED this _ 9th day of June, 2023.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL

EXAMINER

AURY NAGY, M.D.
Board President

