Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-9436-1
Against: FI LE D
OSAMA OMAR HAIKAL, M.D., MAR 16 2023

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. be adi EXAMINERS
By: _= ~~

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND ORDER

This case was presented for adjudication and decision before the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (Board), during a regularly scheduled Board meeting on March 3, 2023,
located at 325 E. Warm Springs Road, Suite 225, Las Vegas, NV 89119 (Las Vegas Office) video
conferenced to 9600 Gateway Drive, Reno, NV 89521 (Reno Office). Osama Omar Haikal, M.D.
(Respondent), was properly served with a notice of the adjudication, including the date, time, and
location. Respondent was not present at the meeting. The adjudicating members of the Board
participating in these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law (FOFCOL) and Order were: Bret W.
Frey, M.D., Chowdhury H. Ahsan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, Ms. Pamela J. Beal, Col. Eric D. Wade,
USAF (Ret.), and Carl N. Williams, Jr., M.D., FACS. Rosalie Bordelove, Esq., Chief Deputy

Attorney General, served as legal counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the Complaint and exhibits admitted at the hearing of
this matter, the Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations (Synopsis of Record)!, and the
transcript of the hearing, made its decision pursuant to its authority and provisions of the Nevada
Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), NRS Chapter 622A, and NRS Chapter 233B, as
applicable.


' The Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations were prepared by Charles Woodman, Esq., who was
appointed as Hearing Officer under NRS 630.106 in this matter and presided over the hearing.


(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

13,

The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER in this matter, as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada issued by the Board
from December 7, 1985, to present.

IL.

On June 23, 2022, the Investigative Committee filed its formal Complaint in Case No.
22-9436-1, alleging Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. Respondent was served with
the Complaint on June 27, 2022, at his address of record with the Board. Pursuant to
NRS 630.254, each licensee shall maintain a permanent mailing address with the board to which
all communications from the Board to the licensee must be sent. A licensee who changes his or
her permanent mailing address shall notify the Board in writing of the new permanent mailing
address within thirty (30) days after the change.

The Complaint alleges one (1) violation of the Medical Practice Act that constitutes
grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee, as follows: one (1) violation of
NRS._ 630.3065(2)(a) Failing to Comply with a Lawful Order of the Investigative Committee.

Respondent filed an answer to the allegations set forth in the Complaint on
August 8, 2022.


An Early Case Conference was conducted August 31, 2022 at 4:00 p.m. PDT. Donald K.
White, Senior Deputy General Counsel, was present on behalf of the Investigative Committee (IC)
of the Board, and Respondent, who was not represented by counsel, appeared telephonically along
with the Hearing Officer Charles Woodman, Esq. The parties agreed to dates for the prehearing
conference, exchange of documents, and the hearing date.

In compliance with NAC 630.465, a Notice and Order Scheduling Prehearing and Hearing,
was filed on September 6, 2022, setting the prehearing conference for October 26, 2022, at

e328
gi6

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


13,
15,

10:00 a.m. PDT, and setting the hearing for December 7, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. PST, at the Board’s
Reno Office with video conferencing provided to the Board’s Las Vegas Office. The Scheduling
Order was filed and mailed to Respondent via USPS Certified Mail [tracking no.
9171969009350254761570] on September 6, 2022.

The Prehearing Conference was held telephonically as noticed and ordered, at which time,
legal counsel for the IC, Donald K. White, Senior Deputy General Counsel, appeared.
Respondent appeared telephonically along with Hearing Officer Charles Woodman, Esq.
Respondent was timely and properly served with the IC’s Prehearing Conference Statement and
exhibits, filed and served October 18, 2022, in accordance with NRS and NAC Chapters 630,
NRS Chapters 241, 622A and 233B, and the requirements of due process, by FedEx 2-Day service
[tracking no. 770248689419] on October 19, 2022.

IV.

On December 7, 2022, as duly noticed and ordered, a hearing was held before the Hearing
Officer at the Board’s Reno Office with videoconferencing to the Board’s Las Vegas Office to
receive evidence and to hear arguments of both parties. Legal counsel for the IC, Mr. White,
appeared. Respondent appeared in the Las Vegas Office and continued to represent himself
without legal counsel. Mr. White presented the IC’s case, offered documentary evidence and
presented witness testimony. Exhibits one (1) through five (5), were marked and admitted into
evidence.

The Hearing Officer provided the Synopsis of Record, filed February 7, 2023 which was
properly served to the Respondent the same day via USPS Certified Mail [tracking no.
9171969009350254766537]. This matter was scheduled for final adjudication on March 3, 2023,
at a regularly scheduled Board meeting.

The notice of the adjudication was delivered via FedEx 2-Day service to Respondent on
February 2, 2023 [tracking no. 771189248000].

A copy of the Investigative Committee’s Memorandum of Costs Disbursements and
Attorneys’ Fees was mailed via USPS Certified Mail [tracking no. 9171969009350254766605] on
February 22, 2023.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

YN Dn ne

© ©

ret

Vv.

Pursuant to NRS 622A.300(5)(a), the Synopsis of Record of the Hearing Officer is hereby
approved by the Board without modification and is hereby specifically incorporated and made part
of this Order by reference and attached hereto as Exhibit 1. The Board accepted and adopted the
findings and recommendations made by the Hearing Officer with respect to the sole count in the
Complaint, Count I.

VI.

If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law, it
may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
IL

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent and the Complaint, and an adjudication of this

matter by the Board members as set forth herein is proper.
IL.

Respondent was timely and properly served with the Complaint, and all notices and orders
in advance of the hearing and adjudication thereon, in accordance with NRS and NAC
Chapters 630, NRS Chapters 241, 622A and 233B, and all legal requirements of due process.

Il.

With respect to the allegations of the Complaint, the Board concludes that Respondent has
violated the Medical Practice Act, as alleged in the Complaint, as follows: one (1) violation of
NRS 630.3065(2)(a) Knowingly or Willfully Failing to Comply with a Lawful Order of the
Investigative Committee. Accordingly, Respondent is subject to discipline pursuant to

NRS 630.352.
Iv.

The Board finds that, pursuant to NRS 622.400, recovery from Respondent of reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigation and disciplinary
proceedings against Respondent is appropriate. The Board has reviewed the Investigative

Committee’s Memorandum of Costs and Disbursements and Attorneys’ Fees, and the Board finds

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

w&

wn

Co Oe NIN A


them to be the actual fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigative,
administrative and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, and finds them to be reasonable
and necessary based on: (1) the abilities, training, education, experience, professional standing
and skill demonstrated by Board staff and attorneys; (2) the character of the work done, its
difficulty, its intricacy, its importance, the time and skill required, the responsibility imposed and
the prominence and character of the parties where, as in this case, they affected the importance of
the litigation; (3) the work actually performed by the Board’s attorneys and staff, and the skill,
time and attention given to that work; and (4) the product of the work and benefits to the Board
and the people of Nevada that were derived therefrom.
Vv.

If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of Fact, it
may be so construed.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act, as alleged in the Complaint, as
follows: one (1) violation of NRS 630.3065(2)(a) Knowingly or Willfully Failing to Comply with
a Lawful Order of the Investigative Committee (Count I).

2. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(b), the Board shall administer a written public
reprimand to Respondent.

3. Respondent shall submit to and pass all five (5) sections of the Ethics and
Boundaries Assessment Services (EBAS) examination within one hundred twenty (120) days of
the date of the Board’s finding of a violation which was March 3, 2023, which examination shall
be paid for at the expense of the Respondent. Proof of completion of this examination within the
time period ordered shall be provided to the Compliance Officer of the Board.


(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


4. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(h), Respondent is hereby ordered to pay a fine of one
thousand dollars ($1,000) to be paid within sixty (60) days of the Board’s finding of a violation of
the Medical Practice Act which was March 3, 2023.

5. The Board found that the reasonable, necessary, and actually incurred costs and
expenses for the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of four thousand six
hundred seventy-two dollars and ninety-one cents ($4,672.91), shall be reimbursed by
Respondent within sixty (60) days of the Board’s finding of a violation which was
March 3, 2023. The Board, and/or its designee, are granted the authority to collect any and all
funds due under this Order; and

6. This Order shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required by
law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

DATED this Wy of March, 2023.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: ae
AURY NAGY, M.D.

President of the Board

3.
Eze
pag a

ge
gs

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

13,
15,

CERTIFICATION

I certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter ofp O9AMA OMAR HAIKAL, M.D., Case No. 22-9436-1.

I further certify that Aury Nagy, M.D., is the President of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such; and that the
signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said Aury Nagy, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this lok of March, 2023.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By: Mage Flaios lela d,

MAGGIE ARIAS-PETREL
Secretary-Treasurer and Public Member of the Board

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
Yd


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and CASE NO. 22-9436-1
Complaint Against FORMAL HEARING al
OSAMA OMAR HAIKAL, M.D., }
Respondent. »)
_)

RE IFICER’S SYNO. OF RD OF

A formal hearing on the case noted above was held at the Norther Nevada office of
the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of Nevada (“Board”) on December 7, 2022.
Donald K. White, Counsel for the Board appeared on behalf of the Investigative Committee
(“IC”) of the Board at the Northern Nevada office, and Dr. Haikal appeared via video-
conference from the Board’s Southern Nevada office. Dr. Haikal represented himself.

The Evidence

Board Senior Investigator Trent Hiett testified that he mailed an Order dated
September 2, 2021, which was issued by the Board's IC to Dr. Haikal, requiring him to appear
at a hearing before the IC at 1:30 p.m. on November 10, 2021. The Order authorized Dr.
Haikal to appear telephonically if he chose to do so. Transcript ("T") 10-15.

Mr. Hiett further testified that in response to sending the Order to Dr. Haikal, he
received a return letter from Dr. Haikal dated September 9, 2021, advising the Board that Dr.
Haikal would be available to communicate with the IC on November 10, but not at the time
designated by the IC. Dr. Haikal proposed two altemate times which would accommodate his
schedule. T.15-17, Mr. Hiett responded to Dr. Haikal's letter with another letter advising Dr.
Haikal that he was provided sufficient time to arrange his schedule to coordinate with the time
set by the IC. That letter referenced NRS 630.3065(2)(a), which states:


«le

a

The following acts, among others, constitute grounds for initiating disciplinary
action or denying licensure:

2. Except as otherwise provided in NRS 630.2672, knowingly or willfully

fae a rer malaton, subpoena or order of the Board or a committee designated

by the Board to investigate a complaint against a physician;

Mr, Hiett received confirmation that Dr. Haikal's office received and signed for the
letter on September 23, 2022. T.17-20. In response, Mr. Hiett received another letter signed
by Dr. Haikal, this one dated October 13, 2021. T.21-22. Again Dr. Haikal reiterated that he
would not be available at the time designated by the IC. T.22-23. In his letter, Dr. Haikal
advised that if the IC deemed his refusal to make himself available at the time designated by
the IC as a violation of NRS 630, then a judge would have to decide who is correct. T.22-24,

At the hearing, In his responsive argument to an evidentiary objection, Dr. Haikal
stated what turned out to be his overall defense, i.e., that while he had plenty of notice of the
telephonic hearing with the IC to reschedule patients so as to be able to attend at the time set
by the IC, he did not do so. His rationale for refusing to answer questions at the time set by
the IC was that he needed to accommodate his patients, because, in his opinion, a physician's
responsibility "is to keep his office open for service of his patients." T.29-31, 82.

The Hearing Officer mentions here that, throughout the formal hearing, Dr. Haikal was
concerned with what he described as underlying allegations which he stated were made by two
disgruntled employees. Dr. Haikal referred to those allegations as "whistleblower"
complaints. The undersigned Hearing Officer repeatedly assured Dr. Haikal that any such
complaints were not presently before this tribunal, had never been reviewed by this Hearing
Officer, and accordingly were completely irrelevant to this proceeding. Dr. Haikal repeatedly
acknowledged that he understood. However, Dr. Haikal raised the issue a number of times
throughout the hearing, See e.g,, T. at 31-34, 37-40, 72, 86.

The Board's Deputy Chief of Investigations Johnna LaRue testified that she attempted
to call Dr. Haikal, but was only able to speak with his staff. She left a message that the IC had
issued an order, including a date and specific time for Dr. Haikal to be available to answer

questions, and that she wanted to make sure Dr. Haikal appreciated the gravity of the situation.

-2-



T.45-46.
During his examination of Ms, LaRue, Dr. Haikal stated to this Hearing Officer that:
the tay showed that I was never told why {the Board is] busy at noon or
:30. It just was because that's what we [the Board] want. That's what we [the

Board] said. And I see that as abuse of power and a form of intimidation.

On direct examination by counsel for the IC, Dr. Haikal admitted that he in fact knew
the time the IC had ordered that he appear to answer questions, and that he knew such more
than two months prior to the date on which he was to appear. T.67-68. He also gave a
reasonable explanation for why the time designated by the IC would clash with his normal
daily schedule/routine. (T.73-74) But the record is clear that he did not appear as ordered,
and the record is also clear that he does not believe he violated the statute by failing to appear
at the time set by the IC, because he provided two alternate times. T.83, 85.

Finally, it should be noted that in his own defense testimony, Dr. Haikal stated that

I did not violate the Nevada Statute that you are referring to. I was willing to

answer their questions, The only thing is my patients come ahead of the IC,
and they [the Board] need to realize that.

Hearing Officer's Analysis
Each of the witnesses who testified at the Hearing was credible. The Hearing Officer

saw no prejudice or bias on the part of any who gave testimony. To be sure, Dr. Haikal
himself did not deny doing the act which the Board’s Committee has charged him with -
although he certainly does not believe his refusal to attend the meeting at the ordered time was
in any way wrongful inasmuch as he proposed alternate times that coordinated better for his
ability to see patients,

This case is both factually and legally simple. While Dr, Haikal feels completely
justified in not attending a meeting with the IC at the time of day set in its Order - and the
basis for his justification is his duty to his patients - a noble cause to be sure - the reality is that
he did not do what he was ordered to do - despite his admitted knowledge that he knew what
he was ordered to do. Dr. Haikal opines that the IC has abused its power by refusing to

-3-


reschedule the time to meet with him, and that the Committee does not come before his
patients.

While one can argue that a physician’s greatest duty is to his/her patients, one must
recognize that without the Board’s authorization, a physician is not authorized to treat any
patient in Nevada, And while many practitioners from various professions may decry the
authority held over them by some governing body, and the seeming unfairness of the
practitioner having no input into who serves on that governing body, the law still provides for
the body, and grants the authority that body wields. Hence, if the State of Nevada is to bea
state governed by law, then one must recognize the authority vested in the entities which the
State authorizes and empowers. The Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners is one such
entity. Only a manifest abuse of discretion by the IC would validate a refusal to comply with
its order. The Hearing Officer does not see such an abuse, especially inasmuch as Dr. Haikal
admitted that he had sufficient time to reschedule his patients.

It is clear that the Board and its committees have authority to issue orders to govern the
practice of physicians who treat patients in Nevada. The Board's Investigative Committee
issued such an order to Dr. Haikal. Dr. Haikal received and understood the Order, but refused
to honor it. The Order at issue, and the refusal to alter it upon the demand of Dr. Haikal, was
not a manifest abuse of the IC’s discretionary authority. The statute referenced and charged
makes such a knowing and willful act grounds for discipline, The Board will have to
determine what that discipline should be. Dr. Haikal can and should be praised for his sense
of duty to his patients. However, he must come to appreciate the legal structure that supports
his ability to see and treat those patients.

‘1

The Investigative Committee did in fact prove the allegations in the Complaint. Dr.
Haikal did knowingly and willfully refuse to follow an order issued by the Board’s

Investigative Committee.

DATED this 7" day of February, 2023.

CHA! . WOODMAN, Hearing Officer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
548 W. Plumb Lane, Suite B

Reno, Nevada 89509

(775) 786-9800
hardywoodmanlaw@msn.com

5.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I certify that on this day, I personally delivered or mailed, postage pre-paid, at Reno,
Nevada, a true file-stamped copy of the foregoing NOTICE AND ORDER SCHEDULING
EARLY CASE CONFERENCE addressed as follows:

DONALD K. WHITE, J.D. SENIOR DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSEL
9600 GATEWAY DRIVE
RENO, NV 89521

OSAMA OMAR HAIKAL, M.D.
216 E. DESERT INN RD., SUITE A
LAS VEGAS, NV 89169

DATED this / “day of Feluangas

6-

