(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Uk WN

co em NW


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 23-12909-1

Against: FI LE D
IRFAN M. MIRZA, M.D., MAY - 5 2023

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDI EXAMINERS
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel and attomey for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Irfan M. Mirza, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges
and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 9290). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on January 28, 2000.

2. On March 4, 2022, the Arizona Medical Board entered an Order for Letter of
Reprimand and Probation against Respondent, placing his State of Arizona license on probation
for two (2) years with the following terms and conditions: (1) Respondent shall complete fifteen
(15) hours of continuing medical education; (2) Respondent shall complete the
Professional/Problem-Based Ethics program; (3) Respondent shall enter into a contract with a
monitoring company to perform periodic chart reviews at Respondent’s expense; and (4)

Respondent shall obey all state, federal and local laws, all rules governing the practice of medicine

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., and Carl N. Williams, Jr.,
M.D., FACS.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



in Arizona, and remain in full compliance with any court ordered criminal probation, payments
and orders. See Exhibit 1.

3. The underlying basis for discipline was that Respondent (1) prescribed Soma to his
patient for long term use without clinical justification; (2) prescribed Ambien to his patient
without clinical justification; (3) failed to address his patient’s aberrant behaviors; and (4) failed to
perform urinary drug screens prior to prescribing controlled substances to his patient.

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board

4, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

5. NRS_ 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state or the surrender of a license while under investigation by any
licensing authority is grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

6. Respondent was disciplined by another state when the Arizona Medical Board
entered an Order for Letter of Reprimand and Probation, placing Respondent’s State of Arizona

license on probation for two (2) years and requiring Respondent follow several terms and

conditions.
7. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been

a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


ro

13,
15,

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this

case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,

conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this 5th day of May 2023.

By:

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

i

WILLIAM P. SHOGREN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: shogrenw@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committe


(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein, that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 5th day of May, 2023.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

Chairman of the Investigative Committee

4o0f4

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1

RBRBRRPSBeRSaAaRTBSERSBS

* RECE]
MAR 30 2

/ADA STATE
BEFORE THE ARIZONA MEDICAL BOARD Nevada ST ANT
In the Matter of
Case No. MD-21-0308B

IRFAN MIRZA, M.D.

ORDER FOR LETTER OF REPRIMAND
Holder of License No. 28306 AND PROBATION; AND CONSENT TO
For the Practice of Allopathic Medicine THE SAME
In the State of Arizona.

Irfan Mirza, M.D. (“Respondent’) elects to permanently waive any right to a hearing
and appeal with respect to this Order for Letter of Reprimand and Probation; admits the
Jurisdiction of the Arizona Medical Board (“Board”); and consents to the entry of this Order
by the Board.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Board Is the duly constituted authority for the regulation and control of

the practice of allopathic medicine in the State of Arizona.

2, Respondent Is the holder of license number 28306 for the practice of
allopathic medicine in the State of Arizona,

3. The Board Initiated case number MD-21-0308B after recelving a complaint
regarding Dr. Mirza’s care and treatment of a 63 year-old female patient ("MD") alleging
Inappropriate prescribing of controlled substances,

4. MD first established care with Respondent as a cardiac referral for circulation
problems In the hands and feet, chest pain, and Intermittent arm numbness. MD had a
past medical history of reflex sympathetic dystrophy ("RSD") of the right hand following an
on the job crush Injury In 1995. MD also has associated severe neuropathy, Raynaud's
disease, osteoarthritis, chronic pain syndrome, severe anxiety, muscle spasms, and

insomnia.
5. On February 7, 2018, MD established care with Respondent as her Primary

Care Provider. At the time, MD's medications Included Ambien 10mg at bedtime, Soma

ED

1D OF

ERS


won _
RRFBBRSSEaeRVBSHTPFBERCSBS

350mg three times daily, oxycodone 30mg 1-2 tablets every four hours, lorazepam 0.5mg
every twelve hours, and gabapentin 400mg 3 capsules four times dally. Respondent
documented that MD's pain management providers prescribed Soma, lorazepam, and
oxycodone in the past. Respondent further documented that MD's current Pain
Management Provider ("PMP") requested that Respondent prescribe Soma and Ambien in
addition to the oxycodone and lorazepam being provided by the PMP. Respondent
documented review of MD's Controlled Substance Prescription Monitoring Program
(‘CSPMP") report and a phone consultation with the pain management provider.
Respondent documented informed consent and a discussion of the risks of Soma and
oxycodone with MD. Respondent also discussed the prescribing of multiple controlled
substances with the pharmacist. Respondent noted that MD's hand surgeon was
contemplating amputation but was concemed It might lead to phantom limb pain.

6. Subsequently, Respondent saw MD monthly and continued to prescribe her
Soma and Ambien.

7. On August 29, 2018, MD reported weight galn. Respondent recommended
changes to MD's diet.

8. On September 12, 2018, Respondent prescribed MD phentermine 37.5mg
dally for weight loss.

9. On November 21, 2018, MD reported losing her bottle of lorazepam and her
PMP's refusal to replace It. Respondent agreed to prescribe her one time prescription for

Xanax 0.25 mg twice daily.
410. On October 12, 2020, Respondent documented that discussed tapering the

Soma, but that MD was reluctant to attempt a taper. On December 30, 2020, Respondent
documented that he was unable to taper MD's Soma.

oan Oak wnrd =

yy NA
RBRFBBRBRSSEaSASBGBRFSERSBS|

41. On February 16, 2021, MD reported that her PMP discharged her from the
practice and she was looking for a new paln provider. Respondent advised MD to go to ER
if she has withdrawal symptoms,

42. On March 30, 2021, Respondent called MD at home for a wellbeing check.
MD reported nausea, itching, and severe anxiety since she was out of lorazepam and pain
all over since she Is out of oxycodone, Respondent advised MD to go to ER, which the
patient declined, Respondent wamed of risks Including death.

13. On April 19, 2021, MD phoned Respondent's office to report that she was
unable to come to appointment because too Ill. Respondent called MD and left a detalled
message, and MD's husband called back. Respondent told MD's husband to call 911 or
got to the hospital.

44. On April 20, 2021, MD phoned Respondent's office to report that she was
doing better. Respondent's office again recommended going to hospital if her symptoms
worsened.

15, On April 21, 2021 MD presented to a Hospital with complaints of abdominal
pain but left agalnst medical advice.

46. During the course of the Board's investigation Board staff received a letter
signed by MD expressing support for Respondent's care. MD subsequently reported that
Respondent's staff drafted the letter for her to sign, and further reported that Respondent
promised to write her a prescription for Ambien in exchange for the letter. MD reported
that Respondent ultimately did not provide her the prescription, but provided her with a
trazadone pill Instead.

17. The standard of care prohibits a physician from prescribing Soma for long
term use without clinical justification. Respondent deviated from this standard of care by
prescribing MD Soma for tong term use without clinical justification.

oon oar OD =

ny N ND
BRFSBBRESseartraanranas

148. The standard of care prohibits a physician from prescribing Ambien without
clinical justification, Respondent deviated from the standard of care by prescribing Ambien
without clinical justification.

49. The standard of care requires a physician to address aberrant behaviors.
Respondent deviated from the standard of care by falling to address MD's aberrant
behaviors.

20. The standard of care requires a physician to perform urinary drug screens
prior to prescribing controlled substances. Respondent deviated from the standard of care
by falling to perform urinary drug screens prior to prescribing controlled substances to MD.

21, There was the potential for patient harm in that MD was at risk of sleep

apnea, overdose, diversion and death.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

a. The Board possesses Jurisdiction over the subject matter hereof and over,
Respondent.

b. The conduct and circumstances described above constitute unprofessional
conduct pursuant to A.R.S. § 32-1401(27)(e)('Falling or refusing to maintain adequate
records on a patient.”).

¢, The conduct and circumstances described above constitute unprofessional
conduct pursuant to A.R.S. § 32-1401(27)(r)("Committing any conduct or practice that is or
might be harmful or dangerous to the health of the patient or the public.”).

d. The conduct and circumstances described above constitute unprofessional
conduct pursuant to A.R.S, § 32-1401(27)(kk) (“Knowingly making a false or misleading
statement to the board or on a form required by the board or in a written correspondence,

Including attachments, with the board.”),


RBREBSBBRSSESRSBZPSERSBS

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
4. Respondent is Issued a Letter of Reprimand.
2. Respondent is placed on Probation for a period of two years with the
following terms and conditions:

a. Continuing Medical Education
Respondent shall within 3 months of the effective date of this Order obtain no less

than 15 hours of Board Staff pre-approved Category | Continuing Medical Education
("CME") In an Intensive, in-person course regarding controlled substance prescribing.
Respondent shall within thirty days of the effective date of this Order submit his request
for CME to the Board for pre-approval. Upon completion of the CME, Respondent shall
provide Board staff with satisfactory proof of attendance. The CME hours shall be In
addition to the hours required for the biennial renewal of medical licensure.

b, ProBE

Within 3 months of the effective date of this Order, Respondent shall complete the
Professional/Problem-Based Ethics ("ProBE") program offered by the Center for
Personalized Education for Physicians (*CPEP”) for Ethics and Boundaries. The CME
hours shall be In addition to the hours required for the renewal of licensure. Respondent
shall obtain an unconditional or conditionally passing grade.

In the event that Respondent does not recelve an unconditional or conditionally
passing grade, Respondent shall follow any and all recommendations made for further
education and/or remediation, subject to approval by the Board or Its staff.

Respondent shall sign any and all consents or releases necessary to allow CPEP to
communicate to the Board directly. Respondent shall not revoke any releases prior to
successful completion of ProBE. Respondent shall be responsible for the expenses of



participation in ProBE and shall notify Board staff immediately upon scheduling the ProBE
course,
c. Chart Reviews
Within 30 days of completion of the CME, Respondent shall enter into a contract
with @ Board-approved monitoring company to perform periodic chart reviews at
Respondent's expense. The chart reviews shall Involve current patients’ charts for care
rendered after the date Respondent retumed to practice as stated herein. Based upon the
chart review, the Board retains jurisdiction to take additional disciplinary or remedial action.
d, Obey All Laws
Respondent shall obey all state, federal and local laws, all rules governing the
practice of medicine In Arizona, and remain in full compliance with any court ordered
criminal probation, payments and other orders.
e. Tolling
In the event Respondent should leave Arizona to reside or practice outside the
State or for any reason should Respondent stop practicing medicine in Arizona,
Respondent shall notify the Executive Director In writing within ten days of departure and
retum or the dates of non-practice within Arizona. Non-practice is defined as any period of|
time exceeding thirty days during which Respondent Is not engaging In the practice of;
medicine. Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice outside Arizona or of|

non-practice within Arizona, will not apply to the reduction of the probationary period.

f. Probation Termination

After three consecutive favorable chart reviews, Respondent may petition the Board
to terminate the Probation. Respondent may not request early termination without
Satisfaction of the chart review requirements as stated In this Order.


SBRPSRRSBaSARSEARPSERSBS

Prior to any Board consideration for termination of Probation, Respondent must:
submit a written request to the Board for release from the terms of this Order.
Respondent's request for release will be placed on the next pending Board agenda,
provided a complete submission is received by Board staff no less than 30 days prior to
the Board meeting. Respondent's request for release must provide the Board with
evidence establishing that he has successfully satisfied all of the terms and conditions of
thls Order.

The Probation shall not terminate except upon affirmative request of Respondent
and approval by the Board. in the event that Respondent requests Probation termination
and the Practice Restriction Is in effect at the time of the request, the Board may require
any combination of examinations and/or evaluations In order to determine whether or not!
Respondent Is safe to prescribe controlled substances and the Board may continue the

Practice Restriction or take any other action consistent with its authority.

The Board has the sole discretion to determine whether all of the terms and
conditions of this Order have been met or whether to take any other action that Is

consistent with its statutory and regulatory authority.

3. The Board retains jurisdiction and may initlate new action against
Respondent based upon any violation of this Order. A.R.S. § 32-1401(27)(s)

DATED AND EFFECTIVE this 4 ~ day of D Inthe , 2022,

ARIZONA MEDICAL BOARD

By (aa |

Patricla E. McSorley
Executive Director


N Nw N =
RBEBBEBStBaeAeaaRSERZS

CONSE! 'O ENTRY OF ORDE!

1. Respondent has read and understands this Consent Agreement and the
stipulated Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order ("Order"). Respondent
acknowledges he has the right to consult with legal counsel regarding this matter.

2. Respondent acknowledges and agrees that this Order Is entered Into freely
and voluntarily and that no promise was made or coercion used to Induce such entry.

3. By consenting to this Order, Respondent voluntarily relinquishes any rights to
a hearing or judicial review In state or federal court on the matters alleged, or to challenge
thls Order in its entirety as issued by the Board, and waives any other cause of action
related thereto or arising from sald Order.

4, The Order Is not effective until approved by the Board and signed by its
Executive Director.

5. All admissions made by Respondent In this Order are solely for final
disposition of this matter and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil
litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, sald admissions by Respondent
are not intended or made for any other use, such as In the context of another state or
federal goverment regulatory agency proceeding, civil or criminal court proceeding, In the
State of Arizona or any other state or federal court.

6. Notwithstanding any language In this Order, this Order does not preclude in
any way any other State agency or officer or political subdivision of this state from
Instituting proceedings, investigating claims, or taking legal actlon as may be appropriate
now or In the future relating to this matter or other matters concerning Respondent,
Including but not limited to, violations of Arizona's Consumer Fraud Act. Respondent
acknowledges that, other than with respect to the Board, this Order makes no
representations, implied or otherwise, about the views or Intended actions of any other

© on Oa OND

PRPBBENRBeeswAesaerFanw2os

state agency or officer or polltical subdivisions of the State relating to this matter or other
matters conceming Respondent.

7. Upon signing this agreement, and retuming this document (or a copy thereof)
to the Board's Executive Director, Respondent may not revoke the consent to the entry of
the Order. Respondent may not make any modifications to the document. Any
modifications to this original document are ineffective and void unless mutually approved
by the parties.

8. This Order Is a public record that will be publicly disseminated as a formal
disciplinary action of the Board and will be reported to the National Practitloner’s Data
Bank and on the Board's web site as a disciplinary action.

9. If any part of the Order Is later declared void or otherwise unenforceable, the
remainder of the Order in Its entirety shall remain In force and effect.

40. If the Board does not adopt this Order, Respondent will not assert as a
defense that the Board's consideration of the Order constitutes blas, prejudice,
prejudgment or other similar defense.

44. Any violation of this Order constitutes unprofessional conduct and may result
in disciplinary action. A.R.S. § § 32-1401(27)(s) (“Ivlolating a formal order, probation,
consent agreement or stipulation Issued or entered Into by the board or its executive
director under this chapter.”) and 32-1451.

12. Respondent has read and understands the conditions of probation.

eS od DATED: fe [3 .are

IRFAN MIRZA, M.D.

oon Oo afk O NH =

ny NN Nn
SBRESBBRSSGEaeNYaZARSERSAS

EXECUTED COPY of the foregoing malled
this LM day of YVIUACAn _, 2022 to:

Irfan Mirza, M.D.
Address of Record

ORI of the foregoing filed
this jay of ‘Waa 2022 with:

Arizona Medical Board
1740 West Adams, Suite 4000
Phoenix, Arizona 85007

—WinbelleProbion

Board staff


