OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint | Case No. 23-29251-1

Against: FILED
JASON HOWARD LASRY, M.D. DEC - 7 2023
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEBIEAL EXAMINERS
yo

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND ORDER

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision before the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (Board), on December 1, 2023, at the Board’s office located at 325 E Warm
Springs Rd Suite 225, Las Vegas, NV 89119, on the Complaint filed herein.
Jason Howard Lasry, M.D., (Respondent), who was duly served with notice of the adjudication,
was present and represented by his counsel, Chelsea Hueth, Esq. The adjudicating members of
the Board participating in these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order (FOFCOL)
were: Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G., Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel, Aury Nagy, M.D., Ph.D.,
FACC, Ms. Pamela Beal, Irwin B. Simon, M.D., FACS, Jospeh Olivarez, P.A.-C., and Jason B.
Farnsworth, RRT, MBA. Chricy E. Harris, Esq., Deputy Attorney General, served as legal
counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the Complaint and exhibits admitted in the matter
and filed into the record in this case, the “Findings and Recommendations” prepared by the
Hearing Officer, Patricia Halstead, Esq., who presided over the hearing, and the transcript of the
hearing, proceeded to make a decision pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the
Medical Practice Act), NRS Chapter 622A, and NRS Chapter 233B, as applicable.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

i
13,
15,

The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND
ORDER in this matter, as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I.

Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada issued by the Board
at all relevant times.

Il.

On March 8, 2023, the Investigative Committee filed its formal Complaint in
Case No. 23-29251-1, alleging Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. Respondent was
personally served with the Complaint on or about March 20, 2023. The Complaint alleged three
(3) violations of the Nevada Medical Practice Acts, including: one (1) violation of
NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I), one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of
Standards of Practice Established by Regulation — Failure to Consult (Count II), and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records (Count III).
Respondent filed an answer in response to the allegations set forth in the Complaint.

Til.

An Order was filed on April 4, 2023, scheduling the Early Case Conference (ECC) for the
pending matter for April 14, 2023. This Order was served upon Respondent’s counsel by email
and US Mail. The Early Case Conference was held at the scheduled time wherein all parties
appeared telephonically. As a result of the ECC, the Prehearing Conference was scheduled for
June 27, 2023, and a hearing date was set for September 21, 2023, through September 22, 2023,
and a Scheduling Order was issued on April 14, 2023. Respondent’s counsel was served a copy of
the Scheduling Order by email and US Mail. At the time fixed for the Prehearing Conference,
legal counsel for the Investigative Committee, William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel,
appeared, as well as the Hearing Officer, Patricia Halstead, Esq. and counsel for Respondent,
Chelsea Hueth, Esq. At the Prehearing Conference, counsel for the Investigative Committee and

Respondent provided the Hearing Officer with the mandated Prehearing Conference Disclosures

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

kw N

Co ON Dw

"1

and had copies of both the Prehearing Conference Statement and the mandated Prehearing

Disclosures available for the parties. Respondent was timely and properly served with the

Prehearing Conference Statement and the mandated Prehearing Disclosures in accord with NRS

and NAC Chapters 630, NRS Chapters 241, 622A and 233B, and the requirements of due process.
Iv.

On September 21, 2023, through September 22, 2023, a contested case hearing was held
before the Hearing Officer to receive evidence and to hear arguments. The Hearing Officer
received the complete Record of Proceedings, including the transcript of the testimony received
and the exhibits admitted. Upon receipt of the Record of Proceedings, the hearing was closed.
The Hearing Officer filed the Findings and Recommendations on November 8, 2023. The matter
was scheduled for final adjudication on December 1, 2023, at a regularly scheduled Board
meeting. The notice of the adjudication was mailed to Respondent on October 30, 2023, via US
Certified Mail, with a copy by email as well. On November 8, 2023, Respondent was sent a copy
of the Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations via US Certified Mail, with a copy by
email. Additionally, on November 20, 2023, via Fed Ex 2-Day mail, Respondent was given a
copy of the Investigative Committee’s Memorandum of Costs and Disbursements and Attorneys’
Fees and a packet of the materials to be presented at the scheduled Board meeting.

Vv.

Pursuant to NRS 622A.300(5)(a), the Findings and Recommendations of the Hearing
Officer are hereby approved by the Board in their entirety and are hereby specifically incorporated
and made part of this Order by reference. See Exhibit 1.

VI.

In accord with the Findings and Recommendations, the Board hereby finds that all counts
set forth in the Complaint, as recapitulated in Paragraph II above, have been established by a
preponderance of the evidence.

VIL.
If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law, it

may be so construed.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

eo oN

a

No a ro)


CONCLUSIONS OF LAW.
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent and the Complaint, and an adjudication of this

matter by the Board members as set forth herein is proper.
IL.

Respondent was timely and properly served with the Complaint, and all notices and orders
in advance of the hearing and adjudication thereon, in accord with NRS and NAC Chapters 630,
NRS Chapters 241, 622A and 233B, and the requirements of due process.

Il.

With respect to the allegations of the Complaint, the Board concludes that Respondent has
violated NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice as alleged in Count I, has violated NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2),
Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation — Failure to Consult as alleged in
Count II, and has violated NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records
as alleged in Count III. Accordingly, Respondent is subject to discipline pursuant to
NRS 630.352.

IV.

The Board finds that, pursuant to NRS 622.400, it may recover from Respondent
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigative,
administrative and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent as it hereby enters this Findings
of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order finding that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice
Act, which the Board has the authority to enforce.

Vv.

The Board has reviewed the Investigative Committee’s Memorandum of Costs and
Disbursements and Attorneys’ Fees, and the Board finds them to be the actual fees and costs
incurred by the Board as part of its investigative, administrative and disciplinary proceedings
against Respondent, and finds them to be reasonable based on: (1) the abilities, training,
education, experience, professional standing and skill demonstrated by Board staff and attorneys;

(2) the character of the work done, its difficulty, its intricacy, its importance, the time and skill

9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


required, the responsibility imposed and the prominence and character of the parties where, as in
this case, they affected the importance of the litigation; (3) the work actually performed by the
Board’s attorneys and staff, and the skill, time and attention given to that work; and (4) the
product of the work and benefits to the Board and the people of Nevada that were derived
therefrom.

VI.

If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of Fact, it
may be so construed.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1, Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses actually
incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of eighteen thousand two
hundred sixty-eight dollar and four cents ($18,268.04) by April 1, 2024;

2. Respondent shall pay fines in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000) for
Count I, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ($1,250) each for Counts II and III, for a total
fine assessed of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500), by April 1, 2024;

3. Respondent shall perform eight (8) hours of Continued Medical Education (CME),
four (4) hours related best practices in emergency medicine critical care, including treating
envenomization in patients, and four (4) hours on best practices in medical record keeping, within
six (6) months of the date of this Order. These eight (8) hours of CME shall be in addition to the
CME requirements regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of
Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.153(1).

4. Respondent shall be issued a Public Letter of Reprimand; and

5. Respondent’s discipline shall be reported to the appropriate entities, including the
National Practitioner Databank (NPDB).

IT IS SO ORDERED.

DATED this 7th day of December, 2023.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Cet HA Spaces
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D/ F.A.C.0.G.
President of the Board

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

in

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


CERTIFICATION

I certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of Jason Howard Lasry, M.D., Case No. 23-29251-1.

I further certify that Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G., is the President of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such;
and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said Nick M. Spirtos, M.D.,
F.A.C.0.G.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this 7th day of December, 2023.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

MAGGIE ARIAS-PETREL
Secretary-Treasurer and Public Member of the Board

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1

BNRRFRRBBREBSESEWIABARTERES

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No, 23-29251-1

FILED

Complaint Against

JASON HOWARD LASRY, M.D.,

Respondent.

- ... FINDINGS AN) ‘OMME TION!

1. Introduction

This matter was heard on September 21-22, 2023. Present in the Reno office of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the “Board”) were William P. Shogren on behalf of
the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the “IC”) and the
undersigned hearing officer. Appearing and present on behalf of Respondent in the Las Vegas
office of the Board were Chelsea R. Hueth, Esq. on behalf of Respondent and Respondent Jason
Howard Lasry, M.D. IC witness Kristi Barbieri appeared in person at the Reno office of the
Board. IC witness Eric Glissmeyer, M.D. appeared remotely, as did Respondent witness John
Levin, M.D. All witnesses were sworn. The rule of exclusion was not invoked by either party.
IC Exhibits 1-15 were admitted, as were Respondent Exhibits 1-8.

2. Allegations

The Complaint alleges Count I, NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice; Count II, NRS
630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation — Failure to
Consult; and Count III, NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records. See
Complaint, filed on March 8, 2023, The Complaint centers upon the treatment of a three year old

1 Incorporated herein by reference are tho full Hearing Transcripts, Volume I and Il, dated Soptember 21, 2023 and
September 22, 2023, respectively, and which are referred to herein under the designation “TR” and “TR2,” as well as
the exhibits admitted at the hearing.

ee rane wn

PRRRRBRBRRERSERESRBEEB RES
e2ran ore SSO OIA AA BF HWN ES

patient who suffered a rattlesnake bite, in relation to which antivenom was not administered by
Respondent. Id. Count J, the Malpractice claim, is premised upon Respondent's alleged failure to
“recognize hypotension and tachycardia” and Respondent’s failure to treat the patient’s
“diminishing condition.” Id. Count JI, the Failure to Consult Claim, is premised upon
Respondent’s alleged failure to consult with a “medical toxicologist” to address Respondent’s
diagnosis, which would have “enhanced the quality of medical care” provided as to the need for
antivenom and other therapies, Id. Count III, the Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical
Records, is premised upon the alleged failure to note the patient’s tachycardia and hypotension.
Id.

In relation to the IC’s case, the undersigned hearing officer heard from Kristi Barbieri, a
Board Investigator (TR 18-39) and expert witness Eric Glissmeyer, M.D. (TR 40-147). In relation
to Respondent’s case, the undersigned hearing officer heard from Respondent Jason Howard
Lasry, M.D. (TR 152-239) and expert witness John Levin, M.D, (TR2 5-43).

On behalf of the IC, Ms. Barbieri authenticated IC exhibits and cross-examination of her
was utilized primarily to demonstrate her limited knowledge of the medical matters at issue in the
case and the fact that the medical records were limited to twenty-one pages, although no other
medical records were ever addressed and Ms. Barbieri testified on re-direct that she believed the
medical records provided were complete (TR 38). The only other witness called by the IC was
Dr. Glissmeyer, a pediatric emergency physician and the IC’s expert, who testified to his
background and opined that Respondent failed to meet the standard of care required for treatment
of the patient. TR 40-48. Dr. Glissmeyer then established a timeline from the medical records as
follows:

Rattlesnake bite occurred on May 9, 2020 at approximately 14:57 (2:57 p.m.) (TR 92)

EMS arrived on scene at 15:56 hours (3:56 p.m.) (TR 50)

EMS departed the scene at 16:07 hours (4:07 p.m.) (TR 50)

EMS arrived with the patient at Humboldt Gencral Hospital in Winnemucca, Nevada, at
16:16 hours (4:16 p.m.) (TR 51)


BRBRRRESRRSVCSWTARESEEES

Patient was seen by Respondent at 16:24 hours (4:24 p.m.), and Respondent assessed
patient as having been bitten by a rattlesnake on her left knee with a 25%

increase in swelling since EMS marked the initial swelling (the medical term for which is
edema) (TR 51)

For approximately 35 minutes Respondent delivered care and assessment, which would
bring the time to approximately 17:00 hours (5:00 p.m.) (TR 52)

Renown Hospital (“Renown”) in Reno, Nevada, accepted the patient for transfer at 17:56
hours (5:56 p.m.) (TR 52)

Patient was discharged from Humboldt General Hospital at 18:32 hours (6:32 p.m.) (TR
53)

Patient departed Humbolt General Hospital by ground transport at 18:52 hours (6:52 p.m.)
(TR 53)

Patient arrived at Renown at 21:29 hours (9:29 p.m.) (TR 53)

Patient was pronounced deceased on May 13, 2020 at 17:27 hours (5:27 p.m.), Cause of
death was permanent cessation of cardiac function, secondary to MOS (Multiple Organ
Dysfunction Syndrome), secondary to cardiac arrest, secondary to rattlesnake bite. (TR 54-
55)

The Renown medical records provided as IC Exhibit 8 establish that the patient started to
decompensate (failed to maintain adequate circulation) in route to Renown and was being bagged
upon arrival (being subject to manual resuscitation for forced ventilation, meaning the patient was
in respiratory failure/arrest).? Efforts to treat the patient through defibrillation and otherwise were
made but at 21:46 hours (9:48 p.m.) and the patient was deemed not to have a pulse. Id. ‘the
patient was intubated and kept on life support until the family made the decision to cease care. Id.
At the time the decision was made, the patient’s prognosis was “poor” from a “neurologic
standpoint.” Id, The Renown records further reiterate that the patient was not administered
antivenom per Respondent but antivenom was started at Renown (“Antivenom had not been
received at the outside hospital and was started here”). Id.

Ml

2 The timeline of the patient's doteriorating condition during transport was not specifically testified to but the Renown
records (IC Exhibit 8, NSBME 100) indicate that “bag-mask ventilation” took place for the “last ‘few minutes’ of
transport” per the patient’s mother who was in the ambulance.

Co ent An e& wWDHn

RPNRePRPRRRREBRBERBRDHREREEBE ESB

To summarize Dr. Glissmeyer’s opinions of the charges faced by Respondent, Dr.
Glissmeyer opined that Respondent committed malpractice by failing to recognize the signs of
envenomization and failing to timely administer the antivenom. See, e.g. TR 573 As to failure to
consult, Dr. Glissmeyer concluded that the conversation with the Renown physician, Dr. Gassen,
was a hand-off versus an actual consultation (TR 85), and that Respondent failed to consult with a
medical toxicologist through an emergency telephone number made available to health care
providers since 2011. TR 65-66. As to failure to properly maintain medical records, Dr.
Glissmeyer opined that the patient’s blood pressure was not notated while the patient was under
Respondent’s direct care, which is relevant to the signs of envenomization - such signs being
hypotension (low blood pressure); systematic bleeding; and neurotoxicity (as evidenced by vital
sign abnormalities such as tachycardia). TR 64; 70-72; 75-76; 120; 136. Dr. Glissmeyer also
takes issue with Respondent’s failure to recognize and note the patient’s increased heart rate
(tachycardia), having instead noted that the patient’s heart rate was normal as to rate on rhythm.
TR 71; 100.

Respondent addressed Dr. Glissmeyer’s opinions by and through documentation, cross-
examination, and/or testimony, arguing that while Respondent did not personally note the
tachycardia, the patient was tachycardic as was reflected in the medical records documenting the
patient’s vital signs, and that the high heart rate was deemed attributed to the stress of the
situation. TR 100; 159-162; 209-210. The patient’s relevant labs came back within acceptable
ranges, which was not contested. TR109-112; 170-174, Although the edema had increased by
25% per Respondent, Respondent deemed it negligible going so far as to deem it “minuscule.”
TR 116; 167-169; 194; 210, The patient’s hypotension as later noted in the ambulance stabilized
for a period, TR 126-127. Respondent further argued that the patient’s blood pressure was not
recorded prior to transport but it was monitored and the failure to document it in the patient’s

record was the nurse’s fault, which Respondent’s expert witness John Levin, M.D. supported. TR

3 In particular, Dr. Glissmeyer testified that Rospondent should have obtained full vital signs including blood
pressure, recognized the patient's elevated heart rate (tachycardia), recognized the progression of swelling, and for
any of those conditions, administered tho antivenom bofore transferring the paticnt via the “fastest mode possible.”
TR 82, »


Cc eran ea wow

Sa AIA ARAHHKE ST SIAA AA HHES

162; 204-205; 208; TR2 41. Respondent also maintained that the patient was not hypotensive or
would have been treated for such. TR 163; 195. Respondent further testified that he has been
educated about, and has experience with, snakebites, having treated 15-20 snakebite patients prior.
TR 226. Therefore, according to Respondent, consultation with a medical toxicologist was not
necessary. TR 184.

John Levin, M.D. (“Dr. Levin”), an emergency medical specialist, testified on behalf of
Respondent and indicated that upon arrival at Humboldt General Hospital, the patient had normal
perfusion, meaning normal blood flow (TR2 11);* normal respiratory rate (TR2 12); acceptable
temperature and oxygen saturation (Id.); and a heart rate of 149, which was high and, therefore,
tachycardic, but which was attributable to the patient being young and enduring a traumatic event
that was ongoing through the visit to the emergency room (TR2 12-13).

As to the patient’s blood pressure, Dr. Levin testified that he did not see it recorded on the
patient’s records from Humboldt General Hospital but that was not unusual because blood
pressure is not normally taken for toddlers. TR2 14-15.

Per Dr. Levin, the normal labs, the lack of an indication of muscle weakness, and the
patient’s ability to move her leg, all indicated that “there was no significant envenomization at
that time.” TR2 17-19.

Dr. Levin further testified that he did not believe that the decision to transfer the patient by
ground was inappropriate, stating that ground transport is routine; the difference in timing was
“maybe a half hour or an hour;” and that ground transport was the easiest and fastest option even
though air transport was available.’ TR2 19-22. In subsequent testimony, Dr. Levin admitted to
not being familiar with the travel distance relative to this matter and opined that an hour
difference in travel time would not have been impactful. TR2 42-43.

As to the patient’s blood pressure, Dr. Levin testified that it was “a little hypotensive”
when it was measured during transport but that it became normal within an hour. TR2 22-23.

M

4 TR2 = Transcript Volume II

5 This is inaccurate as addressed further herein.

ec eat AnH a WD

BRRKRKRKSKRRFSVURAARBREBEERS

Dr. Levin also testified that in his experience, which he later testified was the treatment of
two snakebites in forty years (TR2 31), the vast majority of snakebites are non-lethal and that it is
very rare to die from a snakebite but clarified that in a study he relied upon “some got
antivenoms” and noted other resulting problems absent death. TR2 23-25; 37-38. As to this
patient in particular, Dr. Levin noted the patient’s death as “[uJnusual and unfortunate” and
opined that it was a judgment call for Respondent not to administer the antivenom and
Respondent's failure to do so was reasonable based upon the low mortality rate affiliated with
snakebites. TR2 25; 28.

On cross-examination, Dr. Levin testified that a single symptom of envenomization,
hypotension in particular, is insufficient to justify administering antivenom, particularly here
when it was noted as temporary (TR2 33-34), and that it is reasonable not to take a toddler’s blood
pressure in snakebite situations (TR2 34-35). Dr. Levin also indicated that it was reasonable for
Respondent not to have administered antivenom but that in the same or similar situation he
himself “might have given it.” TR2 35-36.

4. Further Dispositive Testimony/Evidence.

Dr. Glissmeyer by and through the IC submitted three articles on envenomization that,
other than one potentially post-dating the incident,® were addressed by both parties and that were
deemed to establish the standard of care for the treatment of snakebites and envenomization.

In particular, IC Exhibit 11 is titled How Should Native Crotalid Evnenomation Be
Managed in the Emergency Department, Clinical Practice Statement (September 14, 2020 and
updated on April 26, 2021 and September 16, 2021) [authors omitted].

IC Exhibit 12 is titled Wilderness Medical Society Practice Guidelines for the Treatment
of Pitviper Envenomations in the United States and Canada, Wilderness and Environmental
Medicine, 26, 472-487 (2015) [authors omitted].

IC Exhibit 13 is titled Bites by Crotalinae Snakes (Rattlesnakes, Water Moccasins
{Cottonmouths}, or Copperheads) in the United States: Management, UpToDate (current through

6 The 2022 year referenced for such was a review and update reference, so it is not clear when the article was first
written and the standards stated therein were not challenged despite whether the article did or did not post-date the

incident at issue.

centr an a wow wv

RBRSRRRSRFSVUBRWUARAKBEBEREES

October 2022) [author omitted].
Exhibit 11 plainly states that antivenom should be administered for any of the following:

- Significant or progressive local tissue damage, e.g. tenderness, swelling,
hemorrhagic bleb, described as being more than minimal and having extended
past a major joint of, if not having extended past a major joint, then if there is
significant local tissue injury;

- Systemic toxicity, e.g. hypotension (low blood pressure), airway swelling,
neurological toxicity (here tachycardia as relied upon by the IC); and

- Significant or progressive hematologic toxicity, particularly identified
fibrinogen or platelet levels.

Exhibit 11 also indicates that if a limb was bitten, it should be elevated to keep tissue swelling
from exacerbating. In this instance, no testimony was sought nor provided as to whether the
patient’s leg (the bite was on her knee) was elevated, and undersigned did not find such a
reference in the Humbolt General Hospital Records submitted as IC Exhibit 6.

IC Exhibit 12 establishes that “more severe” envenomization systemic symptoms include
hypotension, bleeding, angioedema, vomiting, and neurotoxicity (also noting that the vomiting
can arise from an autonomic response to fear and anxiety). The article defines “minor
envenomization” as swelling and local pain at the envenomization site. Antivenom is
recommended for patients with moderate to severe envenomization; thus, any time symptoms of
envenomization progress, which includes swelling progressing past tissue local to the bite site and
any signs of systemic toxicity, common signs of which are hypotension, systemic bleeding, or
neurotoxicity, antivenom should be administered. If a patient is suspected of having minor
envenomization, which is what Respondent relied upon by way of his testimony, one of the
factors influencing the standard of care as it relates to observation includes healthcare access.

IC Exhibit 13 likewise recommends the administration of antivenom as soon as possible
when there is progressive swelling or signs of systemic toxicity, clarifying that antivenom is
appropriate when there are any symptoms beyond minor localized swelling. IC Exhibit 13
further states that antivenom administration “is the mainstay for treatment,” and that some patients
may be asymptomatic at presentation but go on to develop signs of severe envenomization over

time.

centr nn ee ww

BNRRREBRBREBSERERVTRARBREES

All three articles recommend consultation with a medical toxicologist or other physician
with expertise in managing snakebites. IC Exhibit 11 did not address potential negative impacts
of administering antivenom but IC Exhibit 12 indicated that antivenom induced hypersensitivity
reactions and serum sickness occur in approximately 8% to 13%, respectively, of patients, and
that providers should be prepared to treat the same with epinephrine, steroids, antihistamines, or
emergency airway management. IC Exhibit 13 notes that serum sickness occurs in about 2-3%
of patients (or up to 8% per IC Exhibit 12), and that the risk of an allergic reaction is less than
1% (or up to 13% per IC Exhibit 12). See TR 218.

5. Findings

Count 1, NRS 630.301 (4) - Malpractice

Undersigned finds that Respondent committed malpractice, primarily for Respondent’s
failure to treat the patient’s diminishing condition, but also based upon Respondent’s failure to
recognize tachycardia in a patient suffering from a snakebite. While the malpractice claim was
also based upon Respondent’s failure to recognize hypotension in conjunction with the snakebite
as a sign of systemic toxicity, because there were no records of hypotension from Humboldt
General Hospital (as addressed further below), the only testimony as to such was Respondent’s
testimony that it was monitored, not present, and would have been treated had it occurred. TR
162-163; 205-06. Given the inability to address recognition of hypotension in relation to the
snakebite outside of Respondents testimony because of the lack of documentation or other
testimony, giving Respondent the benefit of the doubt, this factor is not deemed to support the
malpractice count; however, remaining factors do.”

Starting with the tachycardia, tachycardia was noted in the Humboldt General Hospital
medical records and was indicated as a potential consequence of the traumatic circumstances,
which alone and without the impact of a snakebite could excuse concern, but in conjunction with
the snakebite, and in consideration of Respondent’s own observations that that patient was calm

and did not appear to be in distress, the tachycardia was a legitimate concern and should have

7 Respondent acknowledged that both tho tachycardia and hypotension would have been cause for concern with
regard to envenomization, TR 210

Coen AnH e& WH

e2AAA GONE SODA AH BW N SS

been considered in evaluation of systemic toxicity. TR 105-106; 165; 176.

Even more concerning was Respondent’s failure to administer antivenom, which is
attributable to the Complaint allegation of failure to treat the patient’s diminishing condition.
While Respondent and his expert Dr. Levin attempted to minimize the impact of the failure to
administer the antivenom by relying on the labs and deeming the patient’s condition stable, the
articles that outline the standard of care, which were consistent with Dr. Glissmeyer’s testimony,
plainly indicate that any sign of swelling beyond the bite site or any sign of systemic toxicity,
should be treated as soon as possible with antivenom.®

Here, even by Respondent’s own testimony, the patient was tachycardic; the swelling at
the bite site increased by 25% (TR 168; 211); and, even though he denied it, the cross-
examination and the records show that there was mottling at the bite site (TR 193; 211-212;
Exhibit 6 NSBME 079). In attempting to minimize the importance of the increased swelling and
tissue damage, Respondent testified that the swelling never extended past the patient’s knee and
much was made about whether the swelling was sufficient to pass through the ankle (see, e.g., TR
124; 193), but that is not the standard for administration of antivenom. The standard is whether
swelling increases past the bite site and that occurred. Moreover, contrary to Respondent’s
testimony, the swelling increased past the knee and extended through the patient’s thigh and lower
leg. TR 124 (Dr. Glissmeyer addressing the relevant patient record from Humboldt Gencral
Hospital) versus TR 169 (Respondent testifying to substantially less swelling than noted on the
records). Notably, Humboldt General Hospital records read as follows:

Patient had two puncture marks on the anterior left knee. A circle was drawn on
the area indicating initial swelling and ecchymosis upon arrival to the ER. There
was a small amount of ecchymosis around the wound as well as extending past the
circle approximately one inch. Current swelling was extended to the entire
extremity. The patient's leg was approximately three times the size of the opposite
leg. The knee had swollen to the same extent. Streaking was noted on the medial
thigh. CMS was noted in all extremities, although the patient's left leg was weak
and she was unable to move it without assistance. Providers limited the movement
of the extremity.

® Dr. Levin testified to having only ever treated two snakebites and, in doing so, had transferred tho patients to nearby
hospitals for the administration of antivenom. TR2 31; 42.



BSRRRBRESVERERRAZREBERES

Exhibit 6 NSBME 084 (emphasis added).

The time of the assessment quoted above is referenced as 19:00 hours (7:00 p.m.), with the
patient having been discharged from Humboldt General Hospital at 18:32 hours (6:32 p.m.), and
departing at 18:52 hours (6:52 p.m.), only eight minutes prior to the notation of the patient’s
condition as quoted. Given the timing, such symptoms would have manifested under
Respondent’s care (TR 169-170; 193-194), particularly where the patient did not initially present
with any such findings. TR 167; Exhibit 6 NSBME 034) (As noted by Respondent at 16:24 hours
(4:24 p.m): “On the anterior left knee there are 2 puncture wounds which are likely the site of
envenomation and there is just a small amount of ecchymosis noted in that generalized area. No
significant edema, no streaking, no skin necrosis, no peripheral edema, no petechiac, no vesicles
ulcers or pustules”). To emphasize this, Respondent stated in his transfer call to Renown
physician Dr. Gassen that the swelling was visually increasing ~ such call being placed at
approximately 17:56 hours (5:56 p.m.) (TR 52), which was 36 minutes prior to discharge (18:32
hours or 6:32 p.m.) and 56 minutes prior to the patient’s departure (18:52 hours or 6:52 p.m.). TR
53.

Furthermore, in failing to treat the patient’s diminishing condition, Respondent failed to
account for the travel time that the patient was required to endure prior to arriving at Renown.
Even though Respondent acknowledged the chance that the patient’s condition could deteriorate
during transport (TR 192-193), Respondent had the patient transported by ground even though air
transport was readily available. TR 184-186, Respondent initially indicated it was the patient’s
mother’s preference that the patient be transported by ground given that the mother could not ride
with the patient if the patient was transported by air, but Respondent made clear that it was his
decision and he felt that the patient was stable enough to go by ground despite the time difference
in transport by air. Id.

Undersigned takes notice that the mileage between Humboldt General Iospital and
Renown is 166.9 miles. Per the patient’s records, the ground travel took approximately 2 hours
and 37 minutes. Comparatively, air transport, as was estimated by Respondent, would have taken

one hour. TR 222. Although Respondent deemed ground transport appropriate, Respondent



RBBBRESSRERIARRSERES


acknowledged that if the mode of transport was determinative he would have insisted on air
transport. TR 187; 221-222.

‘The administration of antivenom sooner rather than later for anything more than minor
envenomization, which can present hours after an initial assessment, is the crux of the applicable
standard of care for a snakebite. See, e.g. Exhibits 11-13. Respondent was aware of the
importance of monitoring the patient, which was the basis for transfer when the admitting
physician for Humboldt General Hospital, Dr. Thorpe, would not permit admission. TR 177-178;
181-182; 192; 224-225.

With respect to transfer versus mode of transport in particular, Dr. Glissmeyer,
Respondent, and Dr. Levin all seemed to agree that the decision to transfer a minor patient was up
to the parent but the mode of transport was up to the treating physician. TR 144 (Dr. Glissmeyer:
“How the patient is transferred regardless of what parents want is what - - is in the decision-
making ability of the physician.”); TR 187 (Respondent: “if 1 thought that the decision between
helicopter or ambulance was going to make a critical difference in the patient’s outcome, I would
have insisted that she go by helicopter with or without the mother”); TR2 19; 42-43 (Dr. Levin:
“In general, you need parental consent for some procedure or transfer, et cetera, but you do what’s
in the best interests of the patient if you are unable to get parental consent,” and also testifying
that it would be appropriate to factor in travel time for treatment).

Here, given the tachycardia, increased swelling, and the prior documented vomiting (see
IC Exhibit 6 NSBME 034; Exhibit 12), transporting the patient by ground when air transport was
available and time was of the essence to administer antivenom additionally fell below the
reasonable standard of care.?

Respondent attempted to justify not administering the antivenom prior to transport by
claiming that antivenom needed to be administered in a hospital setting for continued monitoring,
which could not be provided at Humboldt General Ilospital given that admission was denied by
Dr. Thorpe. TR 178-182; 187-191. Respondent also attempted to justify not administering the

» Dr. Levin was particularly ineffective in refuting this finding in that Dr. Levin had no idea of the distance at issue
nor the timing as between ground and air transport and surmised that ground transport in this situation would have
been “the easiost and fastest.” TR2 22; 42.

1i

cement AA de® ww

BRePRPRBRBBEREBSERBREREREBH ES
2irian arrFe SE OIA AAA WN ES

antivenom prior to transport by claiming concern for an adverse reaction and weighing that risk
against the administration. Id. Both purported bases are unsupported.

When Respondent was asked about whether antivenom was available to administer, his
answer was “I cannot say for sure.” TR 216. Respondent also testified that the administration of
antivenom required preparation and takes approximately an hour or two to administer, and that
out of 15 to 20 prior snakebite patients Respondent had treated, he had administered antivenom to
approximately two-thirds; thus, Respondent was familiar with its administration. TR 155; 188.
Respondent was also clear that Humboldt General Hospital had the medications necessary to treat
any severe allergic reaction to antivenom had he chosen to administer it and an adverse reaction
took place. TR 216.

When asked about the availability of antivenom by undersigned, Respondent indicated that
he assumed it was available and that, if it was not available, antivenom could have been retrieved
from anothcr health care facility. TR 231, Respondent also testified that despite a lead time of 15
to 30 minutes prior to the patient’s arrival, he never checked to confirm whether any antivenom
was available. Id. When additionally inquired of by IC counsel if the first dose of antivenom
could have been administered and then the patient transported, Respondent’s answer was
“[e]verything is possible. I mean, sure, that is within the realm of possibility, yes.” TR 227.

Per the literature submitted as IC Exhibits 11-13, as well as indicated by Respondent’s
own testimony, an initial dose of antivenom could have been administered while the patient was
in Respondent’s care, and Respondent had available all the resources necessary to deal with an
adverse reaction, the chances of which were low, contrary to Respondent's testimony of them
being much higher than the submitted literature supported (a variation as to which Respondent
presented no authority to substantiate). See TR 190, whereat Respondent claims there is “a
significant risk of adverse reactions with antivenom” and claiming it could be as high as twenty
percent; but see TR 58; 60, whereby Dr. Glissmeyer testifies that there are no “absolute”
contraindications to antivenom and that the biggest consideration is whether a patient has received
antivenom prior and had an allergic reaction, a scenario not at issue in the present matter, and

testifying that the chances of an initial allergic reaction are small and that any medication poses


eC eoranwn ae wn

eoIAaAak Sk ONHeE SE DADA A DB WNKH EOS

the risk of an allergic reaction. Per Dr. Glissmeyer, there were no contraindications that should
have been concerning with respect to administering antivenom for this particular patient. TR 79.
Dr. Glissmeyer also made it clear, and such testimony was uncontroverted, that antivenom could
be administered at locations even outside of a hospital but certainly in emergency departments and
emergency centers, TR 57.

Upon an initial dose of antivenom, maintenance dosing is to be undertaken every six hours
if necessary. IC Exhibits 11-13. To that end, an initial dose of antivenom could have been
administered and the patient could have been monitored for any adverse reaction and, assuming
none, transport could have been completed before any maintenance dosing was to take place.
Alternatively, had there been an adverse reaction, Respondent could have addressed it by his own
account. TR 216,

Given the progressive swelling and tissue damage in addition to a known and recognized
sign of systematic envenomization as indicated herein (specifically tachycardia), Respondent’s
failure to administer the antivenom was below the required standard of care and that conclusion
cannot be overcome by a false claim of an inability to monitor the patient or a claim that the
failure to administer the antivenom was properly weighed against the risk of an adverse reaction,
particularly given the travel time and the known risk of the patient’s condition deteriorating in
transit. TR 193; 224-225; 227. The patient’s symptoms made it clear that the bite was not a “dry
bite” and that envenomization was occurring. There was even sufficient concern by another
health care professional, specifically a nurse, to suggest to Respondent that the antivenom be
administered. TR 232-233.

Given that the applicable standard of care for a snakebite contemplates the administration
of antivenom for progressive swelling or tissue damage beyond the bite location or where a
patient demonstrates any sign of systemic envenomization, and the sooner the antivenom is
administered, the better, it was incumbent upon Respondent to have administered the antivenom.
Respondent's failure to timely administer the antivenom was then compounded by his failure to
transport the patient by the fastest means possible, which was by air.

MW


Centr ane won


Notably, in the conversation between Renown physician Dr. Gassen and Respondent with
respect to the patient’s transfer to Renown (see Respondent’s Exhibit 7), which is addressed in
more detail below, Respondent indicated that he “was on the fence” about administering
antivenom and further indicated that the swelling was growing visually before his eyes. Given the
ongoing increased swelling, not to mention the vomiting, complaint by the patient of the “owie”
on her knee reasonably indicating pain (Id.), the tachycardia, and in consideration of the length of
time it was going to take to transfer the patient by ground (or even by air given the distance to
Renown), Respondent took an unwarranted gamble by not administering the antivenom, which
would have not only treated the effects already happening but prevented the progression, TR 66.
I submit that a reasonable physician under the same or similar circumstances would have erred on
the side of caution and hedged their bet by administering the antivenom, particularly given the
length of time the transport required. Even Dr. Levin, Respondent’s expert, testified that in the
same circumstances he “might have given it,” which is about as much of a concession as one can

expect from a retained defense expert. TR2 36,

Count II, NRS 630.306(1)(b)2) — Violation of Standards of Practice Established by
Regulation -- Failure to Consult

As cited in the Complaint, NAC 630.210 requires a physician to “seck consultation with
another provider of health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation
may enhance the quality of medical services,” This may be considered a violation of NRS
630.306(1)(b)(2), which constitutes discipline for the violation of a standard of practice
established by regulation — the NAC (Nevada Administrative Code) establishing the consultation
regulation.

Notably, witnesses were never questioned as to whether they deemed this matter to
constitute a “doubtful or difficult case” so one can only attempt to glean such from the record. In
relation to which, Respondent on the one hand indicated that he felt sufficiently qualified to
address the snakebite without consulting a toxicologist (TR 184); yet, on the other, Respondent

indicated that he was “on the fence” about administering antivenom. Respondent’s Exhibit 7;

TR17.


cent ane © bw

e2aani &8nNe BF FSC BAAN RB wDH me S

The fact that Respondent was “on the fence” indicates that he could have benefited from
consulting a toxicologist, as to which all three articles on the standard of care admitted as IC
Exhibits 11-13 advise. IC Exhibit 11 (“Early medical toxicology consultation is encouraged”);
IC Exhibit 12 (“Consultation with a local toxicologist familiar with envenomations or poison
control center is recommended to assist in patient management.”); IC Exhibit 13 (“Consultation
with a medical toxicologist or other physician with expertise and prior experience treating
venomous snakcbites is strongly encouraged before initiating antivenom therapy” and
recommending antivenom for patients with progressive swelling or signs of systemic toxicity).

To attempt to avoid the conclusion that Respondent failed to consult, Respondent offers
that he consulted with Dr. Gassen of Renown as reflected in Respondent’s Exhibit 7. According
to Respondent, his discussion of the background of the patient’s medical condition, and Dr.
Gassen’s silence about possible concerns regarding Respondent's treatment to that point, was
implicit accord as to Respondent’s care. TR 183-184. Dr. Glissmeyer, in interpreting the same
conversation, deemed it a “hand-off” and not a consultation. TR 85.

Relevant to this contention, there is nothing in the record to indicate Dr. Gassen’s
experience, if any, with envenomization.!° While the applicable NAC provision only provides to
“consultation with another provider of health care,” it is axiomatic that consulting with another
health care provider who cannot lend any expertise to “enhance the quality of medical services”
defeats the point of the regulation. In that respect, each of the articles regarding the issue of
consultation recommend consulting a medical toxicologist or a resource of equivalent value.

Consultation also implicates asking for advice or an opinion. See Black’s Law Dictionary
(11" ed, 2019), defining consultation as the act of asking the advice or opinion of someone or a
meeting in which parties consult or confer. Consultation as defined by the Oxford Languages
Dictionary defines consultation as a meeting with an expert or professional to seek advice. The
Cambridge Dictionary defines consultation as “the act of exchanging information and opinions

about something in order to reach a better understanding of it or to make a decision, or a meeting

'© Dr. Gassen is apparently an ER pediatric physician per Respondent’s Exhibit 6, which is the recording of a nurse’s
call to the Renown Transfer Center.



BNRRREBRBRESVCSERRARPESERES

for this purpose.”

As the recording of the conversation with Respondent and Dr. Gassen reflects
(Respondent’s Exhibit 7), the only query posed by Respondent other than asking Dr. Gassen to
repeat his name was “I was wondering if I could send her to you to be watched?” Respondent
also stated that he was “on the fence” about administering antivenom but that “I don’t think
there’s any emergency to give her antivenom at this point.” Respondent also definitively stated
“she is coming by ground.” None of which sought consultation about administering antivenom or
the mode of transport.

Respondent also testified that he gave Dr. Gassen “a good and complete report of the
patient’s presentation” (TR 183) but, as to the patient’s vitals, Respondent only indicated that
“vital signs are good,” thus failing to address the tachycardia and giving no indication of blood
pressure, which was known to be low during transport and which was not documented while the
patient was at Humboldt General Hospital. With that, Respondent testified that Dr. Gassen
“agree[d] that antivenom wasn’t indicated at this moment but we were considering it.” TR 183.
However, there was no such agreement and, when Respondent’s testimony was clarified,
Respondent testified that Dr. Gassen had the opportunity to ask Respondent to do something and
Dr. Gassen did not do so. Id.

I find that Respondent called Dr. Gassen to facilitate a transfer of the patient and that is
what took place. At no time did Respondent seek advice as to the administration of antivenom or
transport and instead made conclusory statements about both. Respondent’s Exhibit 7. Nor did
Dr. Gassen “agree” with Respondent’s decision not to administer antivenom. TR 183.
Respondent took silence as agreement. TR 184. Silence, however, does not equal agreement -
that was an assumption not supported by the actual conversation. Had Respondent truly intended
to seek to enhance the quality of the medical services he sought to provide via consultation, it was
incumbent upon him to actually seek consult and not just provide background he found relevant to

the patient’s transfer."!

41 Dr, Thorpe was only consulted regarding admission and had no experience to consult on envenomization. TR 177-
178; 181-182.


Cert anaea wn

e2a nana BNE SE DANA A HAWN SF OS

Count III, NRS 630.3062 - Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records

I find that the patient’s increased heart rate, the medical term for which is tachycardia, was
properly reflected in the patient’s medical records given that the patient’s heart rate was recorded
and where it was high was noted with an “h.” The use of the exact term “tachycardia” does not
preclude the fact it was recorded and that the patient being tachycardic is readily apparent to a
medical professional able to interpret such records, TR 69-71.

Turning to blood pressure, which was not noted in relation to the treatment records related
to Respondent (see TR 204), Respondent places blame upon the nurses for failing to record it. TR
162; 204-205; 208. However, NRS 630.3062 requires Respondent to be responsible for
maintaining complete medical records “relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient.”

To the extent blood pressure is relevant to the care and treatment of a snakebite patient,
which it is given concerns regarding hypotension (see TR 210, whereby Respondent
acknowledges low blood pressure and a high heart rate would be a cause for concern), it was
incumbent upon Respondent to have recorded the patient’s blood pressure and, to the extent he
relied upon blood pressure readings, which he indicates he did and that they were normal, it was
necessary for him to maintain a record of such himself so that the veracity of his representation
could be substantiated,

6. Recommendation

Based upon the foregoing, I respectfully submit that the IC has met its burden by a
preponderance of the evidence and that Respondent, Jason Howard Lasry, M.D., be found by the
Board to have committed malpractice; failed to have consulted; and failed to have maintained
complete records for the reasons set forth herein. I defer to the Board as to the appropriate
sanction.

DATED this 7" day of November 2023.

By:
Patricia Halstead, Esq.

Hearing Officer
(775) 322-2244

v7


RERSRRRSRR SVU SFEUVUARBEARES

9171 9690 0935 0241 5578 34

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I certify that on this day, I personally delivered or mailed, postage pre-paid, at Reno,
Nevada, a true file-stamped copy of the foregoing FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION

addressed as follows:

William P. Shogren

Deputy General Counsel

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

Jason Howard Lasry, M.D.

c/o Robert C. McBride, Esq. and
Chelsea R. Hueth, Esq.
McBride Hall

8329 West Sunset Road, Ste 260
Las Vegas, NV 89113

DATED this K'~_ day of Novemioey_ 2023.

i

C3
Signature i
NrYetedey Kuentes
Print

aenyn| Pssuskony _
Title


