OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Bond of Medical Examiners

‘3600 Gatewsy Deve

Reno, Novae 6952,

(ors) ern3ss9

wea.)

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No, 23-39993-1

Against: eileo
HOLMAN CHAN, M.D., FI

SEP 15 2023
Respondent, NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS

oy: Coe NS
SETTLEMENT. AGRERMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Deonne E. Contine, General Counsel for the Board and attomey for the
IC, and Holman Chan, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted by his
altomey, Katherine L. Tuspen, Fsq., of the law firm of John H. Cotton & Associates, hereby enter
nto this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:
A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on June 20, 2012 (License No 14418).

2. On June 2, 2023, in Case No. 23-39993-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
‘Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice, By reason of the foregoing,

Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.
uw

" All agrcements and sdaussions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil ligation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and edmissions are not intended or made for any other use, suchas in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceoding, any sate or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges mater.

Lof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

evade Site Board of Medial Examiners

900 Gatewny Deve

Reno, Nevada 852),

(Ch) 0889

ce yaw ee

n

a

a

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
conceming the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4 Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has

certain nghts 1n this admmistrative matter as set out by the United States Constit

ion, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), whi

contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), whict

is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on

the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
reparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against his, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of faw and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if|
the decision is adverse to his,

$S __Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probetion, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the

Board for consideratior

in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agroement,
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon his and the Board.
mw

wt

20f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Bourd of Medica Ceamlocrs

"900 Gatcwny Dave
Reno, Nevade 9835,

C5) 6259

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.c., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions:
1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has becn, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.
2. Representation by CounseV/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement,
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this

‘matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Walver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives

all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical

Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to his or that
‘may apply to his in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
‘Agreoment, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.
4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed, As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘90 Gatowny Dive
Reno, Nevada $9521

(75) 6B8-2559

Respondent is not admitting that the IC's claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is egrecing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to heating, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/elaims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that 1s grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, Respondent admits to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
‘and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
‘adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of four thousand one hundred sixty-nine
dotlars and forty-six cents ($4,169.46),

©. Respondent shall pay a fine of one thousand five-hundred dollars ($1,500)
within sixty (60) days of the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

4. Respondent shall take five (5) hours of Continued Medical Education
(CME) related to the subject of physician culture of safety or time out procedures in the operating
room which must be completed on or before December 31, 2023, ‘The aforementioned hours of|
CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent|
a a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC. 630.153(1).

€. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

£. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.
Ww

40f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Exaciners

‘a0 Gasceny Drive

Reno, Nevada 9521

(C5) 8-259

u

aa


Pa

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the Stale of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel,

investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, pancls, hearing officers, consultants and agents.

are immune from civil

ility for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to

information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
‘causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
‘unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement, The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint, In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board,

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may aot be limited to, matters conceming this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter, The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agroement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel
ws
wa

ut

Sof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

360 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada #952

(7 ee82559


a
ar

8. fect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Relection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
‘adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not scek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause, The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive yunssdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
‘or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by!
‘the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
tmedicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed,
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agroement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

6 0f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘900 Gateway Dive
Reno, Nevada 99521

(0s) ea 589

u
“4
Is
v7

a
22.
2B
25,


result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(s).
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection et

DATED this Z1 * day of July _,2023, DATED this_ ZZ day o

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

an Dlorue ¢. Lordi

DEONNE E. CONTINE
General Counsel

9600 Gatoway Drive
Reno, NV 89521
Tel: (775) 688-2559

7996 West Sahara Ave., Suite 200
As Vegas, NV 89117

Tel: (702) 832-5909

Email: ihcottonlew.com
Attorney for Respondent



DATED this (2 _ day of, duly 52

By: moe
HOLMART CHAN, M.

Nevada License No. 14418
Respondent

TofT

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
19600 Gateway Dave
Reno, Nevada 895521
(C75) 688-2559

Cer aus

W

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 23-39993-1)
‘was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 15th day of|
September, 2023.

DATED this _ | ~ day of September, 2023.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL.
EXAMINERS,

By: cae

AURY NAGY, M.D.
Board President

