OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

k WN

on


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 23-30806-1

Against: FI LE D

ROBERT LEBARON GRANT STEARS, M.D., JUN - 8 2023

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. MEDICAL E) RS.

By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Robert Lebaron Grant Stears, M.D. (Respondent) violated
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the
IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 17534). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on November 14, 2017.

2. Respondent was also, at all times relative to this Complaint, authorized to practice
medicine in the State of Wisconsin under license number 70776-20.

3. On or about April 20, 2022, the Wisconsin Medical Board entered a Final Decision
and Order (Order) against Respondent, accepting a stipulation and entering disciplinary action
against Respondent’s Wisconsin license in the form of a Reprimand, imposition of costs, and
requirement to complete six (6) hours of continuing education in the area of radiologic appearance

and reporting of central lines. See Exhibit 1.

! The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Aury Nagy, M.D., and Nicola (Nick) M.
Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


4. The Order imposed discipline on Respondent’s Wisconsin license for engaging in
unprofessional conduct by departing from or failing to conform to the standard of minimally

competent medical practice.

5. Respondent failed to self-report this disciplinary action to the Board within thirty
(30) days.
COUNTI

NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board

6. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

7. NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state ... [o]r the surrender of the license or discontinuing the
practice of medicine while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

8. Respondent was disciplined by another state when the Wisconsin Medical Board
entered a Final Decision and Order, reprimanding Respondent, imposing costs, and requiring the

completion of six (6) hours of continuing education. See Exhibit 1.

9. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT IT

NRS 630.306(1)(k) - Failure to Report Disciplinary Action

10. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

11. | NRS 630.306(1)(k) provides that the failure by a licensee to report in writing,
within thirty (30) days, any disciplinary action taken against the licensee by another state is
grounds for initiating disciplinary action or denying licensure.

12. Respondent did not report to the Board in writing within thirty (30) days the

disciplinary action taken by the Wisconsin Medical Board.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent,

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this ps day of June 2023.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: Well Bias

WILLIAM P. SHOGREN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: shogrenw@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


No a on

13,

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
1 SS.
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Aury Nagy, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this _% day of June 2023.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

By: <a>
AURY , M.D.

Chairman of the Investigative Committee


rl
14.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 8th day of June, 2023, I served a file-stamped copy of the foregoing COMPLAINT
and required fingerprinting materials, via USPS Certified Mail, postage pre-paid, to the following

parties:

ROBERT LEBARON GRANT STEARS, M.D.
13333 Northwest Fwy.
Houston, TX 77040

Tracking No.: 9171 9690 0935 0255 6991 00

cSt
DATED this day of June, 2023.

a=

MERCEDES FUENTES
Legal Assistant
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
RECEIVED
MAY 26 2022
STATE OF WISCONSIN NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
BEFORE THE MEDICAL EXAMINING BOARD MEDICAL EXAMINERS
IN THE MATTER OF DISCIPLINARY
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST :
: FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

ROBERT L. STEARS, M.D.,

RESPONDENT. :  @RDERUOU 7944

Division of Legal Services and Compliance Case No. 21 MED 133
The parties to this action for the purpose of Wis. Stat. § 227.53 are:

Robert L. Stears, M.D.
Houston, TX 77040

Wisconsin Medical Examining Board
P.O. Box 8366
Madison, WI 53708-8366

Division of Legal Services and Compliance
Department of Safety and Professional Services
P.O. Box 7190

Madison, WI 53707-7190

‘The parties in this matter agree to the terms and conditions of the attached Stipulation as
the final disposition of this matter, subject to the approval of the Medical Examining Board
(Board). The Board has reviewed this Stipulation and considers it acceptable.

Accordingly, the Board in this matter adopts the attached Stipulation and makes the
following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

lL Respondent Robert L. Stears, M.D. (Year of Birth 1957), is licensed in the state of
Wisconsin to practice medicine and surgery, having license number 70776-20, first issued on April
1, 2019, with registration current through October 31, 2023. Respondent’s most recent address on
file with the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services (Department) is in
Houston, Texas 77040.

2. At all times relevant to this proceeding, Respondent practiced radiology.
3. On December 28, 2017, Patient A, a male born in 1931, was transferred to a medical

center in Columbus, Georgia, with sepsis, acute renal failure, and diarrhea. He was admitted to the
Intensive Care Unit.
4. At approximately 12:50 a.m. on December 29, 2017, an arterial line was placed in
Patient A’s right radial artery, and at 1:10 a.m, a right internal jugular line was placed. At 1:41
a.m. (CST), a STAT chest x-ray was ordered. The order comment noted that Patient A was status
post right IJ central line placement.

5. Respondent reviewed Patient A’s chest x-ray and issued his report at 2:20 a.m.
(EST). In his findings, Respondent’s interpretation confirmed there was @ small left pleural
effusion and no pneumothorax but did not make mention of the central line or its placement.

6. At2:30 a.m, (CST), a second chest x-ray was ordered after Patient A was intubated.
Respondent reviewed the second chest x-ray and issued his report at 3:48 a.m. (EST). In his
findings, Respondent noted that the right jugular central line tip is in the downstream left
subclavian vein,

7. On December 30, 2017, a chest CT was performed and interpreted by another
provider, It found that the “right-sided central line within the right common carotid with the tip at

the origin of the right common carotid.” The central line was determined to be malpositioned and
‘was removed.

8. Patient A suffered severe vascular injury to his brain and died on January 9, 2018.

9. Respondent failed to comment on the central line in his first report, even after the
indication was “right IJ central line placement,” and failed to identify that the central line did not

follow the course of.any anatomic vein and, therefore, should have been flagged for further
investigation.

10. _ Respondent denies that his care fell below the standard of minimally competent
medical practice but, in resolution of this matter, consents to the entry of the following Conclusions
of Law and Order.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1. The Wisconsin Medical Examining Board has jurisdiction to act in this matter

pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 448.02(3), and is authorized to enter into the attached Stipulation pursuant
to Wis. Stat. § 227.44(5).

2. Based on the Findings of Fact, Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct by
departing from. or failing to conform to the standard of minimally competent medical practice
which creates an unacceptable risk of harm to a patient or the public whether or not the act or
omission resulted in actual harm to any person, pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code § Med 10.03(2)().

3. As a result of the above conduct, Respondent is subject to discipline pursuant to
Wis; Stat. § 448.02(3).

ORDE!

1 The attached Stipulation is accepted.
2. Respondent is REPRIMANDED.

3. Respondent's license to practice medicine and surgery in the state of Wisconsin,
(license number 70776-20), and his right to renew such license, is LIMITED as follows:

a

c.

Within six months of the date of this Order, Respondent shall successfully
complete six hours of education on the topic of the radiologic appearance
and reporting of central lines.

Respondent shall be responsible for obtaining the course(s) required under
this Order, for providing adequate course descriptions to the Department
Monitor, and for obtaining pre-approval of the course(s) from the
Wisconsin Medical Examining Board, or its designee, prior to
commencement of the course(s).

The Board's monitoring liaison may change the number of credit hours
and/or education topics in response to a request from Respondent. The
monitoring liaison may consider the topic availability and/or hours of
education when determining if a change to the ordered education should
occur.

Within 30 days of completion of the ordered education, Respondent shall
submit proof of successful completion of the ordered education in the form
of verification from the institution providing the education to the
Department Monitor at the address stated below.

Respondent is responsible for all costs associated with compliance with this
educational requirement.

None of the education completed pursuant to this requirement may be used
to satisfy any continuing education requirements that have been or may be
instituted by the Board or Department.

4, Within 90 days from the date of this Order, Respondent shall pay COSTS of this
matter in the amount of $789.00.

5. Requests for course approval, proof of successful course completion, and payment
of costs (made payable to the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services) shall be
sent by Respondent to the Department Monitor at the address below:

Department Monitor
Division of Legal Services and Compliance
Department of Safety and Professional Services
P.O. Box 7190, Madison, WI 53707-7190
Telephone (608) 26 Fax (608) 266-2264
DSPSMonit isconsin.gov

Respondent may also submit this information online at: https://dspsmonitoring.wi.cov.
9 9

6. In the event Respondent violates any term of this Order, Respondent’s license
(number 70776-20), or Respondent's right to renew his license, may, in the discretion of the Board
or its designee, be SUSPENDED, without further notice or hearing, until Respondent has complied
with the terms of the Order. The Board may, in addition and/or in the alternative refer any violation
of this Order to the Division of Legal Services and Compliance for further investigation and action.

7. This Order is effective on the date of its signing.

WISCONSIN MEDICAL EXAMINING BOARD

By: Salle A (Section, td 4/20/2022

A Member of the Board Date

STATE OF WISCONSIN
BEFORE THE MEDICAL EXAMINING BOARD

IN THE MATTER OF DISCIPLINARY

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST :
: STIPULATION
ROBERT L. STEARS, MD., : mA
RESPONDENT. : OROERVOV79 44

Division of Legal Services and Compliance Case No. 21 MED 133

Respondent Robert L. Stears, M.D., and the Division of Legal Services and Compliance,
Department of Safety and Professional Services, stipulate as follows:

1. This Stipulation is entered into as a result of a pending investigation by the Division
of Legal Services and Compliance. Respondent consents to the resolution of this investigation by
Stipulation. .

2. Respondent understands that by signing this Stipulation, Respondent voluntarily
and knowingly waives the following rights:

«the right to a hearing on the allegations against Respondent, at which time the State has the
burden of proving those allegations by a preponderance of the evidence;

¢ the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against Respondent;

the right to call witnesses on Respondent’s behalf and to compel their attendance by
subpoena; .

¢ the right to testify on Respondent’s own behalf;

© the right to file objections to any proposed decision and to present briefs or oral arguments
to the officials who are to render the final decision;

e the right to petition for rehearing; and

* all other applicable rights afforded to Respondent under the United States Constitution, the
Wisconsin Constitution, the Wisconsin Statutes, the Wisconsin Administrative Code, and
other provisions of state or federal law.

3. Respondent is aware of Respondent’s right to seek legal representation and has
been provided an opportunity to obtain legal counsel before signing this Stipulation. Respondent
is represented by Attorney John Reid. ,

4, Respondent agrees to the adoption of the attached Final Decision and Order by the
Wisconsin Medical Examining Board (Board). The parties to the Stipulation consent to the entry
of the attached Final Decision and Order without further notice, pleading, appearance or consent

of the parties. Respondent waives all rights to any appeal of the Board's order, if adopted in the
form as attached.
9 9

5. If the terms of this Stipulation are not acceptable to the Board, the parties shall not
‘be bound by the contents of this Stipulation, and the matter shall then be retuned to the Division
of Legal Services and Compliance for further proceedings. In the event that the Stipulation is not
accepted by the Board, the parties agree not to contend that the Board has been prejudiced or biased
in any manner by the consideration of this attempted resolution.

6. Tho parties to this Stipulation agree that the attomey or other agent for the Division
of Legal Services and Compliance and any member of the Board ever assigned as an advisor in
this investigation may appear before the Board in open or closed session, without the presence of
Respondent, for purposes of speaking in support of this agreement and answering questions that
any member of the Board may have in connection with deliberations on the Stipulation.
Additionally, any such advisor may vote on whether the Board should accept this Stipulation and
issue the attached Final Decision and Order,

7. Respondent is informed that should the Board adopt this Stipulation, the Board's
Final Decision and Order is a public record and will be published in accordance with standard
Department

8. Respondent is further informed that should the-Board adopt this Stipulation, the
Board's Final Decision and Order will be reported as required by the National Practitioner
Databank (NPDB) Guidebook and as otherwise required by any licensure compact or any other
state or federal law.

9. The Division of Legal Services ond Compliance joins Respondent in
recommending the Board adopt this Stipulation and issue the attached Final Decision and Order,

Robert L. Stears, M.D., Respondent Date
Houston, TX 77040
License No. 70776-20

ONO Le Apc §, Qo22-

John Reid, Attomey for Respondent Date
Cassiday Schade LLP

330 E. Kilbourn Ave., Suite 575

Milwaukee, WI 53202

. 4/6/2022

Julie Zimmer, Prosecuting Attomey Date
Department of Safety and Professional Services

Division of Legal Services and Compliance

P.O. Box 7190

Madison, WI 53707-7190

