OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

13,
15,


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 23-40388-1
Against: FiicD

JOSHUA PETER SMITH, PA-C SEP 15 2023

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By: ina

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attorney
for the IC, and Joshua Peter Smith, PA-C (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted
by his attorney, John H. Hunt, Esq., of the law firm of Clark Hill, LLP hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a physician assistant currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada His license was originally issued on October 15, 2012 (License No. PAI384).

2. On June 28, 2023, in Case No. 23-40388-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3), Violation of Statutes and
Regulations of the Nevada State Board of Pharamey (Count 1). By reason of the foregoing,

Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or|
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(75) 688.2559

a wn

~auw

2 ©

W

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board's order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
nn
wt

20f7

'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(78) 688-2589

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

o

ee x

a


B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters

with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

Jurisdiction, Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Represen: yn_by Cow ‘nowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 99521,
(075) 688-2559

eran


W
15,

a


Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation, Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to the sole count, Count I, a violation of NRS
630.306(1)(B)(3) - Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the State Board of Pharmacy, which
provides that engaging in conduct that violates @ provisions of chapter 639 of NRS, or a
regulations adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy pursuant thereto, that is applicable to a
licensee who is a practitioner, as defined by NRS 639.0125, is grounds for initiating discipline
against a licensee. Respondent admitted to unintentional error by dispensing prescription drugs,
which included control substances and dangerous drugs under Dr. Ramanathan’s dispensing
license in violation of NAC 639.742(1) pursuant to the State Board of Pharmacy’s Stipulation and
Order.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of five hundred seventy dollars thirty-one
cents ($570.31).

¢. The Respondent shall perform eight (8) hours of Continued Medical
Education (CME) related to ethics prescribing controlled substances, within six (6) months of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The eight (8) hours of CME shall

be in addition to the CME requirements regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of|

40f7

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

W

licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.153(1).

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f. The remaining counts of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from
the Board’s corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of |
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against,
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of secking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of |
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and

all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that

Sof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examigers
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

u




Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreem Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Bindin; . If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Korum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs, The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Eailure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by

the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice

6 0f7

‘Tuoeue

Ren es

‘eval Se oud fet anion

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

rr ese eR TRON TT ATT TTS SS PE EES PERTH

Conse Hearing, which sell be daty wo

rvedicine im Nevada penuling. an Cher

Agueeinent, including fatlure tv pay any fines, cast

Failuve to comply with the tens of th
sew» comply with ame onder of the Hod, which en4y}
He Wastin

expenses oF feet owed 60 the Hot, 1 2 fi
result in adkliuonal disciplinary action being taken agains Kespondsat
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Hoard for rwonien syeed te be pai ata

nay subject Respondent to civil collection effurs
AK

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTCE OF THE CLARK HILL, LLP
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS: Ae

condition ofthis Agreement

August

day of fnty, 2023. DATED thise2Y__ day of 2028

DATED

WILLIAM, SYSGREN TORI H, HUNT, ESQ.

Deputy General Counsel 10 S. Pavilion Center Drive, Ste, $00,
9600 Gateway Drive ‘Las Vegas, NV 89135

Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 697-7512

‘Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: jluuni@elarkhill.com

Email: shasrenwd@medbourd w gov “Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

at
DATED this ZO day of Juer _.2023.

by:
=== SMITH, PAC

Nevada License No. PAI3B4
Respondent

Tof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
"Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(075) 688-2559

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 23-40388-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 15th day of]
September, 2023.
DATED this 15th day of September, 2023.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

By:

AURY NAGY, M.D.
Board President

