Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 23-51850-1
Against: FILED

HAI TU DUONG, M_D.,
JUN 23 2023

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDI MINERS
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the
IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Hai Tu Duong, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating
the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 19875). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on May 20, 2020.

2. On April 1, 2020, the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer
Affairs of the State of California (California Medical Board) filed an Accusation in
Case No. 800-2018-041842, accusing Respondent of Gross Negligence (Cause II), Repeated |.
Negligent Acts (Cause III), and General Unprofessional Conduct (Cause IV). See Exhibit 1.

3. On January 21, 2021, Respondent entered into a Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order revoking Respondents license, with the revocation stayed and Respondent

placed on probation for thirty-five (35) months. See Exhibit 3.

1 The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Carl N. Williams, Jr.,
M.D., FACS, and Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF (Ret).


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



4, The Decision and Order of the California Medical Board became effective on

July 2, 2021, at 5:00 p.m. See Exhibit 2.
COUNT I
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another Licensing Board

5. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS_ 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state ... or the surrender of the license or discontinuing the practice
of medicine while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

7. Respondent was disciplined on July 2, 2021, when the California Medical Board
gave Respondent a stayed revocation, resulting in probation for thirty-five (35) months.

8. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and



Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


6.

premises.

That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

DATED this Y~ day of June, 2023.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS


DONALDK. WHITE

Senior Beputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


oo
aye)
a
PSD
BS &
g 8°
CaS
3Eg~
S

a4

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
> SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE _ )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED thisA2 day of June, 2023.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE RD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Chairman of the Investigative Committee


EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
8B RESK FE SeTRFAEHEHKzAS

ts
oS

XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of California
STEVEN D. Muni

Supervising Deputy Attorncy General

) MEGAN R. O*CARROLL

||. Deputy Attorney General .

|[:State Bar No. 215479.

}] 1300.1 Street, Suite 125

‘P.O, Box 944255

Sacramento, CA 94244-2550
Telephone: (916) 210-7543
Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORETHE |
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
_ In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 800-2018-041842
HAI TU DUONG, M.D. ACCUSATION
332] MSt. | . ;
Merced, CA 95348

- Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate
No. A 103786,

Respondent.

PARTIES.

1. Christine J, Lally (Complainant) brings this Accusation solcly in her official capacity .
as the Interim Executive Director of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer
Affairs (Board). . ne oe

2. On or about May 7, 2008, the Medical Board issued Physician's and Surgeon's
Certificate Number A 103786 to Hai Tu Duong, M.D. (Respondent). The Physician’s and
Surgeon‘s Certificate was in full force and effect at alt times relevant to the charges brought

-herein und will expiré on February 28, 2022, unless renewed.

1 ; ;
(HAI TU DUONG, M.D.) ACCUSATION NO, 806-20 18-04 1842



JURISDICTIO

3. This Accusation is brought before the Board, under the authority of the following
laws. All section references’ are to the Business and Professions Code (Code) unless otherwise
indicated,

4. Section 2227 of the Code provides that a licensee who is found guilty under the
Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended for a period not to exceed
one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of probation monitoring,.or such other
action taken in relation to discipline as the Board deems proper.

5. Section 2234 of the Code, states:

The board shall take action against any licensee who is charged with
unprofessional conduct, In addition to other provisions of this article, unprofessional
conduct includes, but. is not limited to, the following:

(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, assisting in or
abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate any provision of this chapter.

(b) Gross negligénce.

(c) Repeated negligent acts. To be repeated, there must be two or more
negligent acts or omissions. An initial negligent act or omission fallowed by a
separate and distinct departure from the applicable standard of care shall constitute
repeated negligent acts,

(1) An initial negligent diagnosis followed by an act or omission medically
appropriate for that negligent diagnosis of the patient shall constitute a single’
negligent act.

(2) When the standard of care requires a change in the diagnosis, act, or
omission that constitutes the negligent act described in paragraph (1). including, but
not limited to, a reevaluation of the diagnosis or a change [n treatment, and the
licensee’s conduct departs from the applicable standard of care, cach departure
constitutes a separate and distinct breach of the standard of care.

(d) Incompetence.

(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption which is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and
surgeon.

(A) Any action or conduct which wauld have warranted the denial of a
certificate.

(g) The failure by a certificate holder, in the abscnce of good cause, to attend
and participate in an interview by the board. This subdivision shall only apply to a
certificate holder who is the subject of an investigation by the board.

(HAL TU DUONG, M.D.) ACCUSATION NO. 800-20 18-041842

i}



6. Section 2266 of the Code states: The failure ofa physician and surgeon to maintain
adequate and accurate records relating to the provision of services to their patients constitutes

unprofessional conduct.

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
8. Respondent Is an anesthesiologist in Merced, California. In spring of 2017, the

Confidential Patient (C.P.), then a 43-year-old-woman, was referred to Respondent's practice for
treatment of back pain. Respondent had her initial appoiftment with Respondent on or about

April 18,2017. During the appointment, Respondent evaluated her back pain-and scheduled an

_ appointment for a steroid injection, which he performed on or about July 5, 2017.

9.  C.P. continued to see Respondent for evaluation and.treatment over.approximately
the next six months. C.P, received an additional injection on or about November 18, 2017, and
continued to appear for evaluations and follow up throughout December of 2017, On or about
December 18, 2017,,C.P. contacted Respondent's office complaining of intolerable pain, and
requesting additional pain medication to see her through'to the next appointment. Respondent's
staff documented that they explained to C.P. that Respondent does not prescribe controlled

medications because his practice lacks the ability to monitor patients for proper use of those

ji medications. C.P. reported. that she understood and would contact her primary care provider
instead.

10. Onor about January 30, 2018, C.P. had her last appointment with Respondent. Her
appointment was at 5:00 p.m. C.P. arrived early to the appointment at approximately 4:00 p.m.,
in the hope that she might be seen earlier. After waiting, she had her appointment with


' (HAETU DUONG, M.D.)ACCUSATION NO. 800-2018-041842 |"


S

Respondent. During the appointment, Respondent scheduled C.P. for another injection in
February of 2018, CP. explained that she did not think she would be continuing as a patient after
the injection. Respondent recommended that she continue treatment with him.

Hl. Afler leaving the examination room. C.P. stopped at the front desk to schedule an

appointment for the third injection on February 3, 2018. ‘She then proceeded out of the building

to the parking lot at approximately 6:00 p.m. As she was walking through the parking fot toward

her parked car, Respondent also lefi the office and came to spéak to her in the parking lot. CLP.
told Respondent she needed to leave because she was concemed about driving home at that hour
in the dark and in traffic. Respondent asked her to come look at his new truck, CP. explained
that she needed to get coffee before she began her drive home. Respondent told her he knew |
where the closest Starbucks was and he could drive her there inthis new truck.

12. C.P. agreed to.go with Respondent. She observed that Respondent's truck was ared +
and orange Chevy Colorado with a tan interior and bucket seats. C.P. recalled this because her
friend owns a similar truck. While Resporident was driving C.P. to Starbucks, she asked him
whether he needed to get home to his wife. Réspondent confirmed that ho hada wife, but insisted
that it was fine for him to.drive her to Starbucks. The two entered the Starbucks together where
C.P. ordered a large Frappuccino and Respondent ordered a regular coffee. C.P. attempted to pay
for her drink, but Respondent stopped her stating that he makes a lot of money working at two
different clinics, and he pald for their drinks. While they sat at a table, Respondent Stated ‘that he
was tired from working a long day and that most of his stress comes from problems with his wife.
C.P. told him he should address his concerns to his wife. C.P. observed that Respondent seemed
quiet and depressed. She estimates they were at Starbucks for approximately 30 minutes.

13. Respondent began fo drive C.P. back to the parking lot of the clinic using a different
route than they had driven to Starbucks. During the drive Respondent was suddenly quict, and
C.P, asked him if he was okay, He responded that he was okay but very tired. When they
returned to the parking lot C.P. noticed that the only cars in the lot were her car and a landscaping
truck. Respondent stopped his truck some distance from her parked car. As C.P. began to exit
the truck, Respondent suddenly began driving, preventing her from getting out. Respondent

(HAI TU DUONG, M.D.) ACCUSATION NO. 800-20 18-041842

THAT TU DUONG, M.D.) ACCUSATION NO, 800-2018-041842

belonged to Respondent. She refiise

to open the garage rr al low the investigator to inspect the:

t on his phone,

‘| -truck. ‘She suggested. that the inv tig

. 7. The Investigator walled Responfent up & meting with him at his efnie on anor

“ tie front office staff could improve their hospitality and ed iim ior a prescription ‘or
16.
19: 5 i
a1

‘OxyContin, Respondent stated that as he was driving back te office, he stopped. his truck of &

E her with a prescription for

p ‘drove her to’ rhe car in the,

street adjacent to the offi ceto explain to C.P. why he ‘cout
OxyContin. Respandent sat: that afer he explain th

24.

“HAT TU DUONG, M.D.) ACCUSATION NO, 8):2018-041842:" |

wo oN DH AO elhlUlhelUlUNDO

vnNnwYePseneryb sae rtaunnrtaosrte

F IPLINE
(Gross Negligence)

22. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234, subdivision (b), of
the Code in that he was grossly negligence in his care and treatment of C.P, The circumstances
are set forth in Paragraphs 8 through 18, above, which are incorporated here by reference as if.
fully set forth herein. Additional circumstances are as follows:

23. Respondent was grossly negligent i in his care and treatment of C.P. for his acts and
omissions, including but not limited to, the following: .

(a) Transporting C.P. toa secluded area In personal vehicle; and
(Repeated Negligent Acts)

24, Respondent Is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234, subdivision (c), of
the Code in that he was repeatedly negligent in his care and ireatment of C.P. The circumstances
are set forth in Paragraphs 8 through 18, above, which are incorporated here by reference as if
fully set forth herein. Additional circumstances are as follows:

25. Respondent was repeatedly negligent in his care and treatment of C.P. for his acts and
omissions, including but not limited to, the following:

(a) Transporting C.P. to a secluded area in personal vehicle;

a

(c) Transporting C.P. to a public place in personal vehicle.

(Gentral Unprofessional Conduct)

26. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234 in that he has engaged
in conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of the medical profession, or conduct which Is
unbecoming to a member in good standing of the medical profession, and which demonstrated an
unfitness to practice medi icine. The circumstances are set forth in Paragraphs 8 through 18,
above, which are incorporated here by reference as if fully sct forth herein.

(HAI TU DUONG, M.D.) ACCUSATION NO, 800-20 18-04 1842


BH RRRBBER BSED ARABRETBTSHEHzAS

PRAYER

WHEREFORE, Complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein alleged,
and that following tlie hearing, the Medical Board of California issue d decision:

1. Revoking or suspending Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate Number A 103786,
issued to Hai Tu Duong, M.D.

2.  Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Hai Tu Duong, M.D.'s authority to
supervise physician assistants and advanced practice nurses;

3. Ordering Hal Tu Duong, M.D., If placed on probation, to pay the Board the costs of

probation monitoring; and

4. Taking such other and further action as ey Propet.

DATED: APR © 1 2020
Caniplatnaht mn
$A2019104497
14422409.docx
A

(HAI TU DUONG, M.0.} ACCUSATION NO, 800-2018-041242

EXHIBIT 2

EXHIBIT 2
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation
Against:

Case No. 800-2018-041842
Hai Tu Duong, M.D.

Physician's and Surgeon's
License No. A 103786

Respondent

DECISION

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby
adopted as the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California, Department
of Consumer Affairs, State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on July 2, 2021.

IT 8 SO ORDERED: June 4, 2021.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

(Teale Beers, IP
Ronald M. Lewis/M.D.-Chair
PanelA

DCUS32 (Rev 61-2019)

EXHIBIT 3

EXHIBIT 3

BPNRRREBRBSFeBeAUAaAaR ORAS

XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of California

STEVEN D. MUNI

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

MEGAN R. O’CARROLL

Deputy Attorney General

State Bar No. 215479

1300 I Street, Suite 125

P.O. Box 944255

Sacramento, CA 94244-2550
Telephone: (916) 210-7543
Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

Attorneys for Complainant

. BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 800-2018-041842
HAI TU DUONG, M.D. OAH No. 2020070047
| 3321 M St.
Merced, CA 95348 STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND
DISCIPLINARY ORDER

Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No. A

Respondent.

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above- |’
entitled proceedings that the following matters are true: " ,
PARTIES
1. William Prasifka (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical Board of
California (Board). He brought this action solely in his official capacity and is represented in this

matter by Xavier Becerra, Attorney General of the State of California, by Megan R. O’ Carroll,

Deputy Attorney General.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)



2. Respondent Hai Tu Duong, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this proceeding by
attorney Nicole D. Hendrickson, whose address is: 655 University Avenue, Suite 119
Sacramento, CA 95825. |

3. Onor about May 7, 2008, the Board issued Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No.
A 103786 to Hai Tu Duong, M.D. (Respondent). The Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate was
041842, and will expire on February 28, 2022, unless renewed.

4. Accusation No. 800-2018-041842 was filed before the Board, and is currently

pending against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily required documents were

|| properly served on Respondent on April 1, 2020. Respondent timely filed his Notice of Defense

contesting the Accusation.

5. . Acopy of Accusation No, 800-2018-041842 is attached as exhibit A and incorporated
herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

6. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
fully discussed with his counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order. .

7. Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to confront and cross-examine
the witnesses against him; the right to present evidence and to testify on his own behalf; the right
to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
documents; the right to reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision; and all other
tights accorded by the California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws.

8. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up each and
every right set forth above.

Mit

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)


SS FR BRS BR SF SBS RA AARBSE AS

CULPABILITY

9. Respondent understands and agrees that the charges and allegations in Accusation
No. 800-2018-041842, Causes for Discipline 2 through 4, if proven at a hearing, constitute cause
for imposing discipline upon his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate.

10. Respondent agrees that, at a hearing, Complainant could establish a prima facie case
for the charges 2 through 4 in the Accusation, and that Respondent hereby gives up his right to
contest those charges.

11. Respondent does not contest that, at an administrative hearing, complainant could
establish a prima facie case with respect to the charges and allegations in Accusation No. 800-
2018-041842, Causes 2 through 4, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit
A, and that he has thereby subjected his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate, No. A 103786 to
disciplinary action.

12. Respondent agrees that his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate is subject to
discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Board’s probationary terms as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below.

CONTINGENCY

13. This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of California.
Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical
Board of California may communicate directly with the Board regarding this stipulation and
settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or his counsel. By signing the
stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that he may not withdraw his agreement or seek
to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it. Ifthe Board fails
to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary
Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal
action between the parties, and the Board shall not be disqualified from further action by having
considered this matter. \

14. Respondent agrees that if he ever petitions for early termination or modification of
probation, or if an accusation and/or petition to revoke probation is filed against him before the


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)



Nw
a

be deemed true, correct and fully admitted by respondent for purposes of any such proceeding or
any other licensing proceeding involving Respondent in the State of California.

-15. The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and facsimile
copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including PDF and facsimile
signatures thereto, shall have the same force and effect as the originals.

16. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree that
the Board may, without further notice or opportunity to be heard by the Respondent, issue and
enter the following Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No. A 103786
issued to Respondent Hai Tu Duong, M.D. is revoked. However, the revocation is stayed and
Respondent is placed on probation for thirty-five (35) months on the following terms and
conditions: .

1. PROFESSIONALISM PROGRAM (ETHICS COURSE). Within 60 calendar days of
the effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a professionalism program, that
meets the requirements of Title 16, California Code of Regulations (CCR) section 1358.1.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete that program. Respondent shall
provide any information and documents that the program may deem pertinent. Respondent shall
successfully complete the classroom.component of the program not later than six (6) months after
Respondent’s initial enrollment, and the longitudinal component of the program not later than the
time specified by the program, but no later than one (1) year after attending the classroom
component. The professionalism program shall be at Respondent's expense and shall be in
addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. -

A professionalism program taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the

Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board

_or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the program would have

been approved by the Board or its designee had the program been taken after the effective date of


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)



this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the program or not later
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

2. PROFESSIONAL BOUNDARIES PROGRAM. Within 60 calendar days from the
effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll ‘in a professional boundaries program
approved in advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent, at the program’s discretion, shall
undergo and complete the program’s assessment of Respondent’s competency, mental health
and/or neuropsychological performance, and at minimum, a 24 hour program of interactive
education and training in the area of boundaries, which takes into account data obtained from the
assessment and from the Decision(s), Accusation(s) and any other information that the Board or
its designee deems relevant. The program shall evaluate Respondent at the end of the training
and the program shall provide any data from the assessment and training as well as the results of
the evaluation to the Board or its designee.

Failure to complete the entire program not later than six (6) months after Respondent's
initial enrollment shall constitute a violation of probation unless the Board or its designee agrees
in writing to a later time for completion. Based on Respondent’s performance in and evaluations
from the assessment, education, and training, the program shall advise the Board or its designee
of its recommendation(s) for additional education, training, psychotherapy and other measures
necessary to ensure that Respondent can practice medicine safely. Respondent shall comply with
program recommendations. At the completion of the program, Respondent shal! submit to a final
evaluation. The program shall provide the results of the evaluation to the Board or its designee.
The professional boundaries program shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to
the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

The program has the authority to determine whether or not Respondent successfully
completed the program.

A professional boundaries course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the

Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)

seers



or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

3. NOTIFICATION. Within seven (7) days of the effective date of this Decision, the
Respondent shall provide a true copy of this Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the
Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to
Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of medicine,
including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief
Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to: -
Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board or its designee within 15
calendar days. .

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or insurance carrier.

4. OBEY ALLLAWS. Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules
governing the practice of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered criminal probation, payments, and other orders.

5. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, statirig whether there has been
compliance with all the conditions of probation.

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end
of the preceding quarter.

6. GENE P TION EMENTS.

Compliance with Probation Unit

Respondent shall comply with the Board’s probation mnit.

Address Changes /
Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of Respondent’s business and

residence addresses, email address (if available), and telephone number. Changes of such
addresses shall be immediately communicated in writing to the Board or its designee. Under no

circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)



and Professions Code section 2021, subdivision (b).

Place of Practice

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent's or patient’s place
of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled nursing facility or other similar licensed .
facility.

License Renewal

Respondent shal] maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and surgeon’s
license.

Travel or Residence Outside California . '

Respondent shall immediately inform the Board or its designee, in writing, of travel to any
areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last, more than thirty
(30) calendar days.

In the event Respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to practice,
Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of
departure and return.

7. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE. Respondent shall be

available in person upon request for interviews either at Respondent's place of business or at the
probation unit office, with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

8. NON-PRACTICE WHILE ON PROBATION. Respondent shall notify the Board or

its designee in writing within 15 calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than
30 calendar days and within 15 calendar days of Respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice is
defined as any period of time Respondent is not practicing medicine as defined in Business and
Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at least 40 hours in a calendar month in direct
patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board. If
Respondent resides in California and is considered to be in non-practice, Respondent shall
comply with all terms‘and conditions of probation. All time spent in an intensive training
program which has been approved by the Board or its designee shall not be considered non-

practice and does not relieve Respondent from complying with all the terms and conditions of


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)



probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United States or Federal jurisdiction while

on probation with the medical licensing authority of that state or jurisdiction shall not be

-considered non-practice. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a

period of non-practice.

In the event Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation exceeds 18 calendar
months, Respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State Medica! Boards’s Special
Purpose Examination, or, at the Board’s discretion, a clinical competence assessment program
that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current version of the Board’s “Manual of Model
Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two (2) years.

Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term.

Periods of non-practice for a Respondent residing outside of California will relieve
Respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the
exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws;
General Probation Requirements; Quarterly Declarations; Abstain from the Use of Alcohol and/or
Controlled Substances; and Biological Fluid Testing..

9, COMPLETION OF PROBATION. Respondent shall comply with all financial
obligations (e.g., restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the
completion of probation. Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent’s certificate shall
be fully restored.

10. VIOLATION OF PROBATION. Failure to fully comply with any term or condition
of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any respect, the
Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke probation and
carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, or Petition to Revoke Probation,
or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation, the Board shall have
continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation shall be extended until
the matter is final. |

Ml

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)


BRRRERSEK HSE SSAA EEBHA AS

11. LICENSE SURRENDER. Following the effective date of this Decision, if
Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request to surrender his or her license,
The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion in
determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate
and reasonable under the circumstances, Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, Respondent
shall within 15 calendar days deliver Respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its
designee and Respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject
to the terms and conditions of probation. If Respondent re-applies for a medical license, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

12, PROBATION MONITORING COSTS. Respondent shall pay the costs associated
with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which
may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shal] be payable to the Medical Board of
California and delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 ofeach calendar’.
year. | .
13. FUTURE ADMISSIONS CLAUSE. If Respondent should ever apply or reapply for
a new license or certification, or petition for reinstatement of a license, by any other health care
licensing action agency in the State of California, charges 2 through 4, and allegations contained
in Accusation No. 800-2018-041842 shall be deemed to be true, correct, and admitted by
Respondent for the purpose of any Statement of Issues or any other proceeding seeking to deny or
restrict license.

Ht]

U7

Hl

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)

i

a —
_




T have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement-and Disciplinary Order and have full y]

|| discussed. it with my attomey, Nicole D, Hendrickson. I understand the stipulation and.the effect

it will have on my Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate. | enter into this Stipulated Settlement

and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be bound by the

. Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California.

DATED: ‘lay \ au a> oo
~ ~ “HATTU DUONG, M.D. _
Respondent

T have read and fully discussed with Respondent Hai Tu Duong, M.D. the terms and

conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

NICOLE D: HENDRICKSON
Attorney jor Respondent

approve its form and content.
DATED: — 1/22/2021 Cac


ENDORSEMENT,

The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration. by the Medical Board of California.

DATED: 1/22/2021_. Respectfully submitted,

XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of Califomia
STEVEN D. MUNI

Subervising Devutv Attommey General

MEGAN R. O'CARROLL
Deputy Attorney General
Attorneys for Complainant

SA20 19104497

- 34729364.docx


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2018-041842)

