‘x00 Gateway Dive
Reno, Nerd SOSA
"ag oss

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Ste Rend of Medio Tonto

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

wake

In the Matter of Charges aud Complaint Case No. 24-30931-1 FILED

Against:
JUNG-TAEK YOON, MD., SEP 12 2025

NEVADA STATE BOARD
Respondent. MEDICAL EXA’
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMEN’
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through William P. Shogren. Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attomey
for the IC, and Jung-Taek Yoon, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted by’
bis attomey. John H. Cotton, Esq. of the law firm of John H. Cotton & Associates. LTD., hereby
enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:*

A. BACKGROUND

1, Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed im active starus by the Board]
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administinuve Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine m
Nevada. His license was originally ssted on ne 1, 2007 (License No 12310).

2. On September 4. 2024. in Case No. 24-30931-1, the IC filed a formal Second]
Amended Complaint (Complaint) chargmmg Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act
Specifically, the Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1
‘and one (1) violation of NRS 630,3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Appropriate Medical Records
(Cowt It).

* All agreements aud admissions nade by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter aud any
subsequent related aduunistrative proceedings or civil ligation volving the Board sad Respondent. Therefore.
Respondeat’s agreements and ednussions are not intended or made for any otber use. sich asin the contest of another
state o¢ federal goverument regulatory agency proceeding. state or federal civil or eriminal proceeding. ouy state 0°
federal court proceeding. or any credestiaing or pavileges mater

Lots

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada tte Reon of Medied Bammer

“0 Goany Deve
eno Noose Ot

‘G79 Gos

3 Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complamt, has reviewed and
understands thus Complaint. and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
conceming the nature and significance of this Complaint

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his nights regarding this admmustrative matter, and)
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint Specifically, Respondent has}
certain rights in thas administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act. the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which 1s
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Admunustrative Procedure Act (APA), which 1s}

contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a format hearing on|

the allegations m the Compl

. the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense. in the’
preparation and presentation of his defense. the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses}
and evidence against him, the right to writen findings of fact. conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board. and the right to judicial review of the Board's order. if
the decision is adverse to hum.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciphnary action against Respondent's
license, meluding heense probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|

adimunistrative fines. as well as any other reasonable requirement or Lmutation, af the Board}

concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act
6 Respondent understands and ageees that this Agreement, by and between!
Respondent and the IC. is not with the Board. and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board's approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement. thea the|
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board,
my
ui

2ofs

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Neva State Das of Mel Examine

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE. 10 order to resolve the matters addressed herein, 1. the wiatters|
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions

1 Jurisdiction Respondent is. and at all tines relevant to the Complant has been a
physician licensed to practice mechicme 1m Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set

forth in the Medical Practice Act.

Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Williug and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he 1s represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herem with said counsel Respondent agrees that af representation by counsel mn this
‘matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC wall be timely nohfied of the material change Respondent
agrees that he knowingly. willingly and intelhgently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel

3. Walver of Rights In connection with this Agreement, and the associated tesmns
‘and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willigly and intelligently waives all rights 19 connection
‘with this administrative matter Respondent hereby knowingly. willingly and mitelhgently waives,
all nights ansmg under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act. the OML, the APA, and any other legal nights that may be available to him or that
‘may apply to hun m connection with the admunistrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint

filed 1 this matter, ancluding defense of the Complasut, adyuclication of the allegations set forth 1n

the Complaint, and amposition of any disciplinary achons or sanctions ordered by the Board
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this}
Agreement, without a heanng or any further proceedings and without the right fo yudheval review
4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basls to Proceed. As of the ume of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it lns a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

‘condiuct that 1s grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act The IC acknowledges

3of8

ees.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada tate Baar of Medical Biomuine
‘00 Gat Drive
Ron Ned 951
‘aim oss9

Respondent is not admitting that the 1C°s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaiot have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve thus matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence. witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/clnms alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence. witnesses, expert witnesses. and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement

S. Consent to Entry of Order, In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that 1s grounds for discipline purstiant to the Medical Practice Act.

Accordingly. the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upo

a. Respondent admuts to Count I. one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4).
Malpractice.

b, Respondent will pay the costs and expenses meurred an the mvestigation,
‘and prosecution of this matter sn the amount of ten thousand fifty-eight dollars and eight cents
(510,058.08). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned costs and expenses by way of six (6)}
payments, the first of five (5) payments an the amount of one thousand six hundred seventy-six]
dollars and thitty-four cents ($1,676.34) is due on or before October 12, 2025, the second payment]
1s due on or before November 12. 2025, the thurd payment 1s due on or before December 12, 207

the fourth payment is due on or before January 12, 2026, and the fifth payment 1s due on or before
February 12, 2026. The sixth and final payment of one thousand six hundred seventy-six dollars
and thirty-eight cents ($1,676.38) is due on or before March 12,

The costs and expenses as

‘well as the payment plan are subject to the Board's acceptance. adoption, and approval of this

Agreement.

¢. Respondent shall pay a fine of two thousand dollars ($2.000) by way of six|
(6) payments, the first of five (5) payments in the amount of three hundred thirty-three dollars and
thirty-three cents ($333.33) is due on or before October 12. 2025. the second payment is due on or]
before November 12, 2025, the third payment 1s due on or before December 12. 2025. the fourth

4of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada Ste eard of Medio Benner

“Nae Greeny Drive

Renn Novela

Gm asaee

payment 15 due on or before Janwary 12, 2026, and the fifth payment is dive on or before February
12, 2026. The sixth and final payment of three hundred thirty-three dollars and thuty-five cents]
($333.35) is due on or before March 12. 2026, The fine amount as well as the payment plan are
subject to the Board's acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement

. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entines and parties as

required by law, including, but not Innuted to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.
e. _Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimiand,
f. Count IT of the Complaint, and any other elaims arising from the Board's
corresponding snvestigative case file(s) shall be dismissed with prejudice
6 Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
‘and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board. and each of its members, staff, counsel,
anvestigators, experts, peer reviewers, comnuttees. panels, hearing officers. consultants and agents:

are immune from cvvil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith m response (0

information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2){a). Respondent agrees to release the State of]
‘Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel.

vestigators, experts. peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
‘causes of action, suits, debts, judgments. executions, clams and demands whatsoever, known and
‘unknown, in Law or equity. that Respondent ever had, now has. may have or claim to have, agaunst
‘any or all of the persons. government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
fr by reason of, this mvestigation, this Agreement or the aduunistration of the case referenced

bere,

Procedure for Adoption of Agreement The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complant. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of}
ith the Board staff and the

this Agreement. counsel for the IC may communicate directly
adjudicating members of the Board
Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or|

conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board

Sof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Neva Ste Deed of Medio nner

"see Cateye

iy case

meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may]
include, but may not be hnmited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and]
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where tis
Agreement is discussed and. if requested. respond to any questions that may be addressed to the:
IC or the IC"s counsel.

8 Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board, In the event the Board accepts.
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order. niking this Agreement
‘an order of the Board. and. pending full compliance with the terms heren, the case shall be closed
od all remaining clams arising out of the Complaunt shall be disinissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board In the event the Board does not

void and of no fore and

accept. approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be nu
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications’ (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstandmg rejection of tins Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
‘and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board's acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considermg
this Complaint and from participating in diseaplinary proceedings agaunst Respondent. including
adjudication of this case: and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shatl not seek to disqualify any|

such member absent evidence of bad faith

10. Binding Effect If approved by the Board Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binduig and enforceable contact upon Respondent and the Board
11, Forum Selection Clause, The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party's consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Juchcial Distriet Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County

12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs The parties agree that an the event an action 1s}
commenced in district cout to enforce any provision of this Agreement. the prevailing party shall

be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys" fees and costs.

Gof8

"0 Gateway Drive
Rena Nevada)
cmp osase

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Soe Rew of Medex Emacs

13, allure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail fo comply with any term
‘or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement las been aecepted. approved aux adopted by|
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice]
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing. which will be duly noticed
Failure to comply with the tenns of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines. costs
expenses or fees owed to the Board. is a faulure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent NRS 630.3065(2Xa)
Additionally, failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Boaid pursuant to this
Agreement will result m immediate suspension pending resolution of any payment delinquency.
unless within ten (10) calendar days of the payment due date, Respondent notifies the Board in
‘writing of the inability 10 comply with the payment terms and requests to appear before the Board!
‘atthe next regularly scheduled Board meeting to request a modification to the payment(s) ordered
sn ths Agreement

mw

mW

mw

mt

uy

mw

70f8

Further, Respondent s fanlure io renut parment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

2 ]f condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent (@ civil collection etforts

DATED this Q¥™ das of DATED his O30 of_Suy_ rors

4 jf INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE = JOHN H. COTTON & ASSOCIATES. LTD.

NEV ADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,

- , My

WILLIAM P SHAGREN

Deputy General Counsel 21107 Flamingo Road Suite 212
9000 Gatewas Drive Las Ves \VS9119
Ren. NV 89821 Tel 7021 249-7908

Hf Tel 781 695-2559

Ema yuoty om
inorier for Respondent

Email shogyen
Atrornes for the lavesnganve Connie

artnedhoardnv

RAL COUNSTI

*} DaTED tis ZO. dav of JOE 2025

OFCL OF TUE Gt

ofS

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Ex

i

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 24-30931-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 12th day off
September, 2025.
DATED this _12th day of September, 2025.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,

By Dette aA
NICK M. SPIRTOS;M.B,, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

