OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

we iw

a

u



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 24-6109-1

Against: FILED

FRANK JOSEPH DE LEE, M.D.,

Respondent. MAR 07 2025
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MERA dEREMINERS

By: _
SETTLEMENT AGREEMEN

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Sarah A. Bradley, J.D., MBA, Deputy Executive Director for the Board
and attomey for the IC, and Frank Joseph De Lee, M.D. (Respondent), a physician in Nevada,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following.!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor with a license in an expired status issued by the
Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine
in Nevada. His license was originally issued on October 4, 1980 (License No. 4126).

2. On August 15, 2024, in Case No. 24-6109-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges three (3) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Counts I-III) and three (3)
violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Counts IV-
VD. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent 1s subject to discipline by the Board as provided in|
NRS 630.352.

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
slate or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7

'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(775) 688.2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

u

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his nghts regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically, Respondent
has certain nights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the
Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is.
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the night to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if|
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, 1s not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

uw
Ww

20f7

Reno, Nevada 89521,
(05) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gaceway Drive

u


ar

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e, the matters
with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions.

ik Jurisdiction Respondent 1s, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,
a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

z Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is not represented by counsel and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein without counsel Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this|
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
decline a full consultation with legal counsel

3. Waiver of Rights In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection|
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that

may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints|

cluding defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.
4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes 1 has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in|

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

ul
13,


Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5 Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent does not admit to Counts I-VI, as alleged in the Complaint, but
Respondent acknowledges that sufficient evidence may be presented at hearing such that the
Board could conclude that Counts I-VI were proven, and he agrees to the Board entering a finding
that he engaged in three (3) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice, and three (3) violations of|
NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records, as alleged in Counts I-VI in
the Complaint.

b. Respondent asserts that it is his intention to retire from the practice of|
medicine, and he hereby agrees to surrender his license to practice medicine in the State of|
Nevada, License No. 4126, pursuant to NAC 630.240. Respondent further agrees not to reapply
for licensure with the Board until two (2) years after the date of the Board's acceptance, adoption
and approval of this Agreement;

c. Respondent agrees to pay the costs and expenses incurred in the
investigation and prosecution of this matter in the amount of fifteen thousand eight hundred
thirteen dollars and fifteen cents ($15, 813.15), which amount shall be stayed and will become

immediately due and payable upon Respondent's reapplication for licensure in the State of|

‘Nevada,
wy

40f7

'9600 Gateway Drive
(C75) 688.2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521,


d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as|
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

©. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f Any other claims and allegations arising from Board’s corresponding
investigative case files 20-19324, 20-19417 and 20-19593, shall also be dismissed with prejudice.

6 Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands!
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and cach of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents|
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of these Complaints. In the course of secking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter The IC and its counsel agree’

that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this

Sof7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(075) 688-2559



Agreement 1s discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board, In the event the Board accepts,
approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the cases shall be
closed and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seck to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this|
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause, The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The partics agree that in the event an action is:
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attomeys’ fees and costs.

13, Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved, and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice

medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,

(05) 688-2559

wauseun

ad

13,
Pr

Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses, or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. See NRS 630 3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this CP, of, fin

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

SARAH A. BRADLEY, J.
Deputy Executive Director
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: bradleys@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

AGREED TO AND UNDERSTOOD.

vATED this/2 day or FEB __, 2025.

State J Nevada , County 6 Clack
SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me by
Frank Joseph DeLee, M.D. this |A__ day of

Feloriaacy: 2025.
NOTARY PUBLIC

Tof7

Nolan Pubic. State OF Newana
COUNTY OF CLARKE
BETSABE PARKER

My Apsomntment Expires
March 3" 2028

