OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(78) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

WW


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
Rae
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-11896-5
Against: FILED

VINCENT PETER NALBONE, M.D.,
APR 30 2025

Respondent,

NEVADA)STATE BOARD OF
MEDIEAK EXAMINERS
By:

COMPLAINT

‘The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through lan J. Cumings, Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that (Respondent) violated the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the
Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and allegations as
follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 8303). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on July 11, 1997.

2. Patient A? was a seventy-two (72) year-old male at the time of the events at issue.

3. On April 22, 2021, Patient A is seen by Respondent for his initial consultation for
frequent nose blowing, nasal blockage on the right more than left, post-nasal drip, thick nasal
mucus, ear fullness, dizziness, ear pain, facial pressure and a decreased sense of smell. A CT was
obtained which Respondent documented as showing significant sinus disease consistent with the

reported symptoms as well as enlarged turbinates, deviated septum and enlarged swell bodies.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Victor M. Muro, M.D., Aury Nagy. M.D. and
Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel

Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect his privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint

lofS

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 686-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

TT



Respondent recommended balloon dilation of the frontal, sphenoid and maxillary sinuses, total
ethmoidectomy, septoplasty, submucosal resection of the inferior turbinates and submucosal
resection of the swell bodies. Patient A was scheduled for surgery on May 7, 2021.

4. On May 7, 2021, Patient A presented for surgery at Respondent's practice.
Patient A was given 20 mg of Valium, and 2 mg of Xanax, both benzodiazepines, preoperatively
and spaced twenty-one (21) minutes apart. Respondent performed a bilateral sinus balloon

sinuplasty, bilateral sphenoid sinus balloon dilation, bilateral maxillary balloon sinusotomy,

bilateral total ethmoidectomy, septoplasty, bilateral submucosal resection of the inferior
turbinates, bilateral submucosal resection of the sell bodies and polypectomy (“Surgery”)
Patient A was discharged from the Surgery without a prescription for pain medication.

5. On May 13, 2021, Patient A was seen postoperatively for debridement with
complaints of continued pressure and very little improvement of 10%. Respondent documented
removal of scabs and devitalized mucosa from the inferior turbinates. Respondent recommended
saline rinses and Patient A was instructed to complete “antibiotics and steroids.”

6. On May 27, 2021, Patient A presented to Respondent for a second post-operative
examination and debridement. Patient A reported worsening of symptoms of increased pressure
behind his eyes and visual changes. Respondent performed a physical examination and obtained a
second CT scan. Respondent documented the CT scan showed the septum is “mildly deviated and
turbinates are smaller volume.” Patient A was prescribed Bactrim DS and a Methylprednisolone
dose pack.

7. Respondents’ medical records for Patient A demonstrate contradictory information,
and the records contain descriptive information which remain unchanged after the Surgery was
completed. The records do not contain any information on the efficacy of the Surgery performed
and reveal little difference between the before and after CT scans. Post operative pain is not
documented to have been treated with pain medication, which would be expected with this type of
surgery and was sought through a different medical provider four (4) days later independently by
Patient A.

Wd

2of 5

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
{9600 Gateway Drive

in



COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

8 Alll of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

9 NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

10. | NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

11. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A by failing to appropriately treat Patient A with post-
operative pain medication, and for Respondent’s use of long-acting benzodiazepies in an elderly
patient for outpatient surgery.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IH
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records

13. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

14, NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

15. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to correctly document his actions when he treated
Patient A, whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

16. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

30f 5


3%
4,
idle
geiye
Beye
Bre

gz


E


WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

3. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

it
DATED this 9”

rs
day of April, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVAD, ‘ATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

IAN J, CUMINGS

Senior Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: jcumings@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

4o0f5

git

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

W


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF CLARK )

Chowdhury H. Ahsan, M.D., Ph D., FACC, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and
states under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent
herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in
the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the
allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

DATED this 30" day of April, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

'Y H. AHSAN, M.D, PH
Chairman of the Investigative Comminé

SofS

