OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Dri
Reno, Nevada
(O75) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint ‘Case No. 25-20296-1

Against: FILED

ROBERT JAMES TROELL, M.D., AUG - 5 2025

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BO)
By: ——

[PLAINT
‘The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through lan J. Cumings, Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Robert James Troell, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

L Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 9816) with a specialty listed
as Otolaryngology. Respondent was originally licensed by the Board on July 1, 2001.

2. Patient A? was a twenty-nine (29) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

ae Patient A is a citizen of Switzerland that sought out cosmetic surgical procedures in
the United States. Patient A had a body mass index (BMI) rating greater than thirty (30).

4, Patient A traveled from Switzerland to Las Vegas, Nevada to meet with

Respondent about the surgical procedures, after relying on the information and representation
mw

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Victor M. Muro, M.D., Aury Nagy, M.D., and
Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel,

* Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

lofS

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521

(075) 688-2859

1"

from Respondent that he was a plastic surgeon. Patient A stated to Respondent prior to leaving
Switzerland, that she weighed 233 Ibs. and measured at 5’5” in height, giving her a BMI of 38.

5. On or about October 2, 2019, Patient A presented to Respondent for elective
cosmetic surgery. At this time, Patient A weighed 240 Ibs. and measured at 5’S” in height, giving
her a BMI of 40, which is classified as severe morbid obesity and greatly increases the risk of
surgical complications. Despite Patient A being a poor surgical candidate due to her severe
obesity, Respondent performed lipoabdominoplasty, VASER ultrasound-assisted liposuction of
the abdomen, middle and lower back, flanks, buttocks and hips. Respondent also performed a
breast and gluteal fat transfer with platelet rich plasma. Respondent removed four (4) liters of fat
from Patient A and removed a large abdominal pannus excision weighing over three (3)
kilograms.

6. On or about October 9, 2019, Patient A began to see an area of darkened skin on
the abdominal flap. Respondent treated the darkened area with hyperbaric oxygen and a
nitroglycerin ointment

7. On or about October 14, 2019, Respondent performed additional surgery on Patient
A, including vertical mastopexy/breast reduction, VASER ultrasound assisted liposuction to the
upper back/axilla, inner thighs/knees, outer thighs, triceps with a mild revision to the flanks and
buttocks as well as debridement of a midline incisional lipoabdominoplasty wound and placement
of platelet rich plasma to facilitate healing. During the October 14, 2019, procedure, Respondent
removed an additional four (4) liters of fat from Patient A.

8. On or about October 18, 2019, Patient A was suffering from complications of the
procedures Respondent performed and inquired about seeing an emergency physician. On
October 21, 2019, Respondent referred Patient A to a general surgeon who provided her with a
topical medication to remove damaged skin and promote healthy skin. However, this general
surgeon was unable to debride the wound

us On or about October 21, 2019, following her visit with the general surgeon, Patient
A went to the Emergency Room at a local hospital who performed lab work. Patient A lefi the

hospital against medical advice and returned to Switzerland.

2o0f5

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Examiners

Nevada State Board of Medi
‘9600 Gateway Dr
Reno, Nevada 89521
(078) 688-2559

iW
23,

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

10. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein,

IL. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

12, NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

13. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances by
failing to optimize the patient’s BMI prior to offering staged body contouring procedures, and
continuing to perform surgery on Patient A, despite her BMI rating of 40 making her a poor
surgical candidate for the planned cosmetic procedures

14. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT I
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) - Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation

15. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

16. Violation of a standard of practice adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary
action pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2).

17. NAC 630.210 requires a physician to “seek consultation with another provider of
health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation may enhance the
quality of medical services.”

18. Respondent failed to timely seek consultation with regard to Patient A’s medical
condition. Respondent should have consulted with an appropriate care provider such as a board-

certified plastic surgeon to address the doubtfulness of the diagnosis of Patient A’s medical

3 ofS

'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

rt

condition and such a timely consultation would have confirmed or denied such a diagnosis and
may have enhanced the quality of medical care provided to Patient A by limiting or eliminating
the post-operative complications she experienced.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, ‘That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 7” day of August, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE.COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

JAN J. CUMINGS

Senior Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Email: icumings@medboard.nv.gov.

Altorney for the Investigative Committee

40f5S

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

cer )s



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF CLARK )~

Chowdhury H. Ahsan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and
states under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent
herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in
the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the

allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and

correct.

DATED this Say of August, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

By:

CHOWDHURY H. AHSAN, M.D., PHD., FACC
Chairman of the Investigative Commitiee

SofS

