OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1 BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

2 OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
3 rer

5 || In the Matter of the Charges and Complaint Case No.: 25-27891-1

FILED

MAR 07 208
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

6 |} Against:
7 || GEORGE PETER CHAMBERS, JR., M.D.,

8 |) Respondent.

9 MEDICAL ‘AMINERS
By — —

10 FIRST-AMENDED COMPLAINT
. " ‘The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
j
4 12 |} (Board) hereby issues this formal First Amended Complaint (Complaint) against George Peter
BEB, 13 [[Chambers, Jc, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, After investigating this
2 oa4
E22 14 |) mater, the IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada
Baie
2g 2€ 15 || Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
28s us

16 || (collectively, the Medical Practice Act).


7 LL Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in the State of Nevada by the
18 || Board in active-probation status (License No. 10476) since October 2, 2023, pursuant to the
19 || provisions of NRS Chapter 630. Respondent was originally licensed by the Board on
20 || April 30, 2003.

21 Care of Patient A?
22 2. At the time of the events in this Complaint, Patient A was a 27-year old female.
23 3. On July 11, 2022, Patient A saw Respondent as a new patient for an annual

24 || gynecologic examination, pap smear, STD screening, and to discuss birth control.


26 ' For Patients A through D, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at
the time the filing of this Complaint was approved, was composed of Victor M Muro, M.D., Chowdhury H. Ahsan,
27 || M.D,, Ph.D, FACC, and Ms. Pamela J. Beal For Patients E and F, the IC was composed of Chowdhury H. Ahsan,
M.D. Ph.D, FACC, Ms. Pamela J. Beal, and Irwin B. Simon, M.D, FACS.
28 2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

it
13,

4. In her visit with Respondent while discussing birth control options, Patient A
describes that Respondent repeatedly used the word ‘jizzing” and made other comments regarding
his own sexual history and childhood that made Patient A uncomfortable.

5. Upon information and belief, a chaperone was not present during these
conversations.

6. Following this conversation, Respondent performed a breast examination, pelvic
examination, and pap smear of Patient A.

7. According to Patient A’s records, a chaperone was present during Respondent’s
examination of Patient A.

8. However, Patient A reported feeling uncomfortable with the way that Respondent
performed these examinations.

9. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists states that physical
examinations should be “explained appropriately, undertaken only with the patient’s consent, and
performed with the minimum amount of physical contact required to obtain data for diagnosis and
treatment.”>

10. Upon information and belief, Respondent should have provided more explanation
to Patient A regarding these examinations.

11. Upon information and belief, Patient A perceived that the examinations included
touches by Respondent that were of a longer length or different depth of pressure than what
Patient A was used to or comfortable with.

12. Patient A further indicated that Respondent gave her a prescription for birth control
and told her she could use a secret back-office phone number to call him when she returned for
her birth control injection and that she could enter the office through a secret VIP back entrance.

13. Patient A received a call from Respondent regarding her abnormal pap smear
results, and Respondent recommended that she return for a follow up visit to receive further
treatment.

Wl

2 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Sexual Misconduct Statement of Policy.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

‘9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


14, Patient A declined Respondent’s recommendation and did not follow up with
Respondent for further treatment.

15. For Patient A, Respondent provided only handwritten medical records.

16. These records appear incomplete and/or illegible.

17. Upon information and belief, handwritten medical records do not meet the standard
of care for medical records.

18. Upon information and belief, Respondent’s records for Patient A are not umely,
legible, accurate, and complete.

Care of Patient B*

19. At the time of the events in this Complaint, Patient B was a thirty-four (34) year
old female.

20. Patient B saw Respondent for gynecologic care in March 2020, April 2021, and
August 2021.

21. For Patient B, Respondent provided only handwritten medical records.

22. These records appear incomplete and/or illegible.

23. Upon information and belief, handwritten medical records do not meet the standard
of care for medical records.

24. — Upon information and belief, Respondent's records for Patient B are not timely,
legible, accurate, and complete.

Care of Patient CS

25. At the time of the events in this Complaint, Patient C was a twenty-five (25) year
old through thirty-one (31) year old female.

26. From 2012 to 2018, Patient C saw Respondent for routine gynecologic care.
ae
Wa

* Patient B's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

5 Patient C's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

Reno, Nevada 89521

(075) 688-2559

aT
13,
at

27. Patient C stated that throughout that time, during her clinical visits with
Respondent, he would increasingly ask her questions about her sex life, and he would tell her
about his own sex life.

28. Patient C stated that during her pelvic examinations, Respondent would ask her to
squeeze his fingers with her vagina to make sure her Kegel muscles were strong enough to have a
good sex life.

29. Patient C stated that during her last appointment with Respondent, he started to
leave the room, but then circled back into the room after the chaperone had left the room and
asked her if she would ever consider posing nude for photographs.

30. He indicated that he was looking for models to pose nude for photographs in the
Adult Video News awards.

31. Patient C declined and did not return to see Respondent for any further medical
care.

32. Patient C saw Respondent for routine annual gynecologic screening and family
planning assistance and did not ever seek consultation from him regarding sexual health concerns
or dysfunction.

33. Accordingly, upon information and belief, Respondent’s questions regarding
Patient C’s sexual history or sexual likes or dislikes was not clinically indicated.

34, — Respondent asserts in his response to the Board that he routinely checks his
patients’ pelvic floor strength and ability to perform Kegel exercises properly duc to his training in
sexual health medicine.

35. However, upon information and belief, Respondent failed to explain the purpose of
the Kegel examination he conducted with Patient C, and he failed to obtain Patient C’s consent for
such an examination.

36. Accordingly, Respondent’s care of Patient C fell below the standard of care.

37. Further, it was improper for Respondent to ask Patient C to pose for nude
photographs.

38. For Patient C, Respondent provided only handwritten medical records.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(073) 658-2839

Pa
25.

39. These records appear incomplete and/or illegible.

40. Upon information and belief, handwritten medical records do not meet the standard
of care for medical records.

41. Upon information and belief, Respondent’s records for Patient C are not timely,
legible, accurate, and complete.

Communications with Patients D® and E”

42. Prior to January 2023, Patients D and E were patients of Respondent.

43. On January 6, 2023, Patient D sent an email to the Board regarding a text message
that she received from Respondent.

44. On January 6, 2023, Patient E sent an email to the Board regarding a text message
that she received from Respondent

45. Upon information and belief, this same text message was sent to multiple current
and/or former patients of Respondent.

46. In this text message, Respondent asked Patients D and E to lend him money in
increments of five hundred dollars ($500) to one thousand dollars ($1000).

47. Respondent indicated that he needed this money to defend against a disciplinary
action brought by the Board against him.

48. Respondent indicated that his finances were depleted after a “nasty divorce”
involving child custody.

49. — Respondent further indicated that he would lose his medical license without money
to pay for a defense against the Board action.

50. Respondent stated that he would repay the money within a year at 5% interest and
requested that the money be sent directly to him via Zelle

51. In his response to the Board regarding this allegation, Respondent indicated that

four (4) patients responded to his text and sent money.

© Patient D's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but 1s disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

7 Patient E's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(O75) 688-2559

52, However, Respondent further indicated that, after speaking with his attorney, he
was advised that he should not have asked his current and/or former patients for money.

53. Respondent indicated that he refunded the money he received and did not accept
any other loans that were subsequently sent to him by current and/or former patients.

54, Beneficence is one of the most important ethical principles in the doctor-patient
relationship.

55. The solicitation of money from a current patient or former patient ignores the
fiduciary responsibility of the physician and places the physician’s financial gain above the best
interests of the patient.

56. This can diminish the trust in the physician and the medical community as a whole,
and can create a relationship in which the physician may no longer be able to remain objective in
his interactions with the patient.

57. Sending this text message to his current and/or former patients is evidence that
Respondent’s boundaries with his patients are lacking.

58. Respondent, as a medical doctor in the State of Nevada, knew or should have
known that seeking monetary loans from his patients was improper.

Care of Patient E

59. At the time of the events in this Complaint, Patient E was a forty-four (44) year old
female.

60 For Patient E, Respondent provided only handwritten medical records.

61 These records appear incomplete and/or illegible.

62. Upon information and belief, handwritten medical records do not meet the standard
of care for medical records.

63. Upon information and belief, Respondent's records for Patient E are not timely,
legible, accurate, and complete.

Wy
Wt
Ww

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

eon

Seocwmrxaauea

18,
a4

Care of Patient F*

64. — From 2016 to 2020, Patient F was a patient of Respondent.

65. At the time of the events in this Complaint, Patient E was a thirty (30) year old to
thirty-four (34) year old female.

66. In 2016, Patient F went to see Respondent about a sexual issue she was having with
her husband.

67. Patient F stated that during her pelvic examination at that visit, Respondent inserted
‘one finger inside of her vagina and asked her to squeeze.

68. Patient F did that and said “yes” to Respondent in response to his question did she
feel that.

69. Patient F stated that Respondent then inserted two fingers inside of her vagina and
asked her to squeeze again.

70. Respondent then asked again if she felt that, and she said “yes.”

71. Patient F reported that Respondent then used crude terms to say that the sexual
issue was the fault of her husband.

72. Respondent then asked Patient F if he could take pictures of her vagina for his
other business because her vagina would look good in his advertisements.

73. Patient F declined and did not return to see Respondent for any further medical
care,

74. Upon information and belief, Respondent failed to explain the purpose of the Kegel
examination that he conducted with Patient F and he failed to obtain Patient F’s consent for such
an examination.

75. Accordingly, Respondent's care of Patient F fell below the standard of care.

76. Further, it was improper for Respondent to ask Patient F to pose for nude
photographs.

77. _ For Patient F, Respondent provided only handwritten medical records.

* Patient F's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint



a

Zz

is

pea8

Bree

Ovass

zagi

Bs

we

a

i


ic}

MT
15,

78. — These records appear incomplete and/or illegible.

79. Upon information and belief, handwritten medical records do not meet the standard
of care for medical records.

80. Upon information and belief, Respondent’s records for Patient F are not timely,
legible, accurate, and complete.

COUNTS I-IV
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

81. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

82. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

83. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician . . . in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances,”

84. — As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patients A, B, C, and F.

85. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNTS V-IV
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records

86. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

87. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

88. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed

to maintain legible medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment, examination, and care of |

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

Examiners

‘Nevada State Board of Mi

~aw aw

cy

i

Patients A, B, C, E, and F by failing to legibly document his actions when he treated Patients A,
B, C, E, and F, whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

89. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNTS X-XII
NRS 630.301(6) - Disruptive Behavior

90. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

91. NRS 630.301(6) provides that disruptive behavior with patients that interferes with
patient care or has an adverse impact on the quality of care rendered to a patient is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a physician.

92.  Respondent’s behavior as described above when providing medical care to Patients
A, C, and F constitutes disruptive behavior.

93. Specifically, engaging in inappropriate and invasive conversation with Patient A
during clinical encounters with Patient A constitutes disreputable conduct.

94. Specifically, engaging in inappropriate and invasive conversation with Patient C
regarding her sex life and sharing information about his sex life with Patient C during clinical
encounters with Patient C, asking Patient C whether she would pose for nude photographs during
clinical encounter, and/or performing a Kegel examination of Patient C without fully explaining
and/or obtaining Patient C’s consent for this examination, constitutes disreputable conduct.

95. Specifically, engaging in inappropriate and invasive conversation with Patient F
regarding her sex life and sharing information about his sex life with Patient F during clinical
encounters with Patient F, asking Patient F whether she would pose for nude photographs during a
clinical encounter, and/or performing a Kegel examination of Patient F without fully explaining
and/or obtaining Patient F’s consent for this examination, constitutes disreputable conduct.

96.  Respondent’s conduct, as described above, was disruptive, affected the medical
care of Patients A, C, and F, and resulted in Patients A, C, and F finding a new medical provider

rather than continuing care with Respondent.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(775) 688-2559

rt



97. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNTS XII-XVI
NRS 630.301(7) - Engaging in Conduct That Violates the Trust of a Patient and Exploits the
Relationship With the Patient for Financial or Other Personal Gain

98. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

99. NRS 630.307(7) provides that “engaging in conduct that violates the trust of the
patient and exploits the relationship between the physician and the patient for financial or other
personal gain” constitutes grounds for initiating discipline against a physician.

100. In asking Patients C and F in the midst of a clinical encounter whether they would
pose for nude photographs for Respondent to use for purposes other than for medical examination
or treatment, Respondent violated Patient C’s and F’s trust and exploited his relationship with
them in order to realize financial or other personal gain for himself.

101. In asking Patients D and E to loan him money in January 2023, Respondent
violated Patient D’s and E’s trust and exploited his relationship with them in order to realize
financial or other personal gain for himself.

102. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNTS XVII-XXI
NRS 630.306(1)(g) ~ Continual Failure to Practice Medicine Properly

103. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

104, NRS 630.306(1)(g) provides that “continual failure to exercise the skill or diligence
or use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by physicians in good
standing practicing in the same specialty or field” constitutes grounds for initiating discipline
against a physician.

Wt


a

Zz

g|

Zils
2oa8

Soke

Ozaze

m geek

meget

Bg**

wy

Bs

E



105. By repeatedly engaging in improper conduct and/or boundary violations with
Patients A, C, D, E, and F, as set forth above, Respondent has continually failed to exercise the
skill and diligence and use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by
physicians in good standing practicing in his field of obstetrics and gynecology.

106. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNTS XXII-XXVI
NRS 630.301(9) ~ Disreputable Conduct

107. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by

reference as though fully set forth herein.

108. NRS 630,301(9) provides that engaging in conduct that brings the medical

profession into disrepute constitutes grounds for initiating discipline against a physician.

109. As demonstrated by the above-outlined facts, by repeatedly engaging in improper
conduct and/or boundary violations with Patients A, C, D, E, and F, as set forth above, and by
repeatedly violating his patients’ trust and exploiting his relationship with them, Respondent
engaged in conduct that brings the medical profession into disrepute.

110. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this

case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

aawaeen

cy

W
13,


5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 7th day of March, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

Baka ‘A. BRADLEY, J.D., MBA
Deputy Executive Director

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: bradleys@medboard nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF CLARK )

Chowdhury H. Assan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and
states under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the First-Amended Complaint against
the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing First-Amended Complaint; and that based
upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a complaint against
Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing First-Amended
Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this 7th day of March, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

CHOWDHURY H. AHSAN, M.D%, Ph.D, FACC
Chairman of the Investigative Committee

