OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2559,

25,

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint ‘Case No. 25-43488-1

Against: FILED
MUSTAFA ISMAIL AHMED, M.D., DEC - 5 2025
NEVADA STATE
Respondent. EVADA STATE BOARD OF
COMPLAINT
The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel and attomey for the IC,

having a reasonable basis to believe that Mustafa Ismail Ahmed, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1, Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 15815). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on April 13, 2015, with a specialty in internal medicine and
subsequently as a general surgeon

2. Information submitted to the Board by Respondent, and included on the Board’s
website, shows Respondent’s specialties as Internal Medicine and General Surgery, with a
subspeciality in Surgical Critical Care. Plastic and cosmetic surgery are not specialties nor
subspecialties of Internal Medicine, Surgery, and Surgical Critical Care.

3. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint the Managing Member at

Las Vegas Body Sculpting and Aesthetics, LLC as well as Southern Nevada Bariatrics, LLC.

' The Investi fe Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W Frey, MD., Carl N. Wilhams, M.D.,
FACS, and Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF (Ret.)



Q

Zz



cer
325,

gia

Bseue

reas

alge

es

aS

oF

as

E


rt

4. At all times relative to this Complaint, Respondent was performing elective
cosmetic procedures, that are not medically necessary, including but not limited to regularly
performing liposuction on patients at two (2) businesses he is the owner of: Las Vegas Body
Sculpting and Aesthetics and Southern Nevada Bariatrics

5. Respondent was, at all times relative to this Complaint, certified by the American
Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS). Respondent is also a member of the American Board of|
Internal Medicine and the American Board of Surgery which are members of ABMS. Respondent
is not certified by any other ABMS Board

6. Respondent has only received traning in liposuction surgery by way of an array of
short (1-2 day), unaccredited mimi-courses in aesthetic procedures; however, Respondent does not
have a certification with the ABMS for plastic surgery.

i. Respondent used Renuvion, a controversial device for label use in aesthetic
surgery, as the device does not allow for temperature control that other skin tightening

technologies have, and leads to higher risk of burns as seen in cases addressed below.

PATIENT A

8. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated for
reference as though fully set forth herein.

9. Patient A? was a twenty-seven (27) year-old female at the time of the events at

issue.
10. On August 11, 2021, Patient A first presented to Respondent's practice, at Las
Vegas Body Sculpting and Aesthetics, for a consultation regarding an abdominoplasty procedure,
(colloquially known as a “tummy tuck”).
11. Patient A saw Respondent an additional (wo (2) times for consultations in August
and September of 2021.
uw
Wy

2 Patient A's true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

i


12, Respondent's lack of ABMS accreditation and having only taken short
unaceredited courses on aesthetic procedures is not satisfactory training to perform plastic or
cosmetic surgical procedures such as ultrasonic liposuction and abdominoplasties.

13. On October 22, 2021, Respondent performed a lipoabdominoplasty on Patient A,
where, during the procedure, it was discovered that Patient A had four (4) small hernias centrally
located. Respondent closed these defects before plication of the rectus muscle, as the procedure
would not have been able to be completed without first repairing the hernias.

14, Patient A’s medical history and physical examination prior to the procedure failed
to indicate that Patient A previously had multiple hernia repairs as well as other abdominal
surgeries (.e., a c-section).

15, Respondent failed to document that he provided any clinical assessment regarding
Patient A’s putative umbilical hernia, despite there being obvious umbilical abnormalities
appearing in the preoperative pictures

16. Patient A’s medical history including her prior surgical procedures and
abnormalities are relevant to the candidacy and safety of an abdominoplasty patient. Respondent
should have: (1) taken the umbilical abnormalities into account when forming his medical plan,
and (2) disclosed and discussed the potential risks and complications with Patient A associated
with performing the lipoabdominoplasty given her history of multiple abdominal surgeries, and
the use of Renuvion and VASER in conjunction.

17. Following the October 22, 2021, procedure, Patient A went on to experience the
known complications of a malpositioned or necrotic umbilicus.

PATIENT B

18. All of the above allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby
incorporated for reference as though fully set forth herein

19. Patient B? was a forty-four (44) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

20. On November 20, 2021, Respondent performed 360 ultrasound vibration

amplification of sound energy at resonance (VASER) liposuction on Patient B, a body contouring

> Patient B's true identity 1s not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but 1s disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(75) 688-2559

15,

procedure that uses ultrasound energy to liquefy fat cells for removal. In addition to utilizing
VASER on Patient B, Renuvion (also known as J-Plasma) was used. Renuvion is a cosmetic
procedure that uses a combination of helium gas and radiofrequency energy to create plasma,
which is then applied under the skin to tighten it.

21. In the medical records for Patient B, it appears that radiofrequency (Renuvion) and
ultrasound (VASER) liposuction were both used, however these fundamentally different
technologies were used interchangeably, and in tandem. These medical technologies carry their
own unique risks/benefits and should have been outlined and documented in the discussions with
Patient B during the informed consent process. Respondent failed to provide full informed
consent to Patient B regarding the use of these technologies, where temperatures rise to
approximately seventy to eighty degrees Celsius (70-80°C).

22. In the days after the procedure, Patient B developed a seroma (a mass caused by
the accumulation of serum within a tissue or an organ that can accumulate as a complication of|
surgery) which was subsequently drained, though there is no documentation that identifies when
the drainage was performed and by whom. Moreover, seroma evacuation is a procedure that
requires consent and documentation, which is also absent in Patient B’s medical records.

23. The use of energy-based technologies such as radiofrequency Renuvion ot
ultrasound (VASER) with liposuction increases the patients’ risk for thermal injury, seromas, and
contour irregularities. The use of both technologies together make the likelihood of complications
greater.

24. Respondent utilized both technologies in tandem and based on Patient B’s medical
records, she was not provided adequate informed consent regarding the medical rational and
benefits for using both Renuvion and VASER and the increased risk of combining these
technologies.

25. Respondent's training and experiences were inadequate to perform the
aforementioned treatments,

26. Respondent has only participated in 1-2 day non-accredited observerships which

does not equate to meaningful residency training in the specialty of plastie and cosmetic surgery.


‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

a7

27. Prior to the procedure, Patient B signed a “Preoperative Cosmetic Surgery
Procedure Patient Agreement Form,” in which Respondent listed that Renuvion would be used,
but the form did not mention that VASER would also be used. Given that the combination of
these two (2) technologies increases the risk of complications, Patient B should have been
informed of this preoperatively. Further, there are deficiencies in the medical records surrounding
Patient B's care. Specifically, there are no details in the operative medical records indicating (1)
the power used by the VASER, (2) the areas that were treated by which method, or (3) the
duration of the treatment for the areas,

28. Using VASER and Renuvion in conjunction increases the risk of burning and
scarring; however, there was no discussion of these risks in Patient B’s medical documentation,
nor was it addressed in the consent forms Respondent presented to Patient B for her signature.

29. Following the November 20, 2021, procedure, Patient B experienced known
complications, such as a fluid collection that was subsequently drained and there was a significant
increase in the laxity of the skin surrounding the areas Respondent worked on, post-procedure.

PATIENT C

30. All of the above allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby
incorporated for reference as though fully set forth herein.

31. Patient C* was a forty-six (46) year old female at the time of the events at issue.

32. On August 21, 2021, Patient C presented to Las Vegas Body Sculpting for
consultation, and she had two (2) additional consultations with Respondent in 2021.

33. On January 10, 2022, Patient C received liposuction with VASER and Renuvion
skin tightening to her abdomen, flanks, and back.

34. Postoperatively, Patient C developed thermal burns and a seroma, and it was
drained in Respondent’s office; however, there 1s no documentation of the date of this occurrence
of the drainage. Moreover, there does not appear to be any medical records regarding the
postoperative care of Patient C, and the only documentation of a history and physical exam from

the day of the surgery.

4 Patient C’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed im the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint

Sof 13

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(O75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.

ony
at

35. Further, Patient C’s medical history included previous liposuction and other
abdominal operations; however, these elements appear to have not been addressed with Patient C;
and these considerations are important to not only determine a patient’s candidacy for the
procedure, but also to assess the patient’s overall risk profile.

36. As a result of the procedure and subsequent Renuvion procedure, Patient C
sustained burns to her neck, back, and flank areas. These thermal injuries will cause permanent
scarring and were a result of a non-plastic surgeon’s use of the combination of energy-based
devices (VASER and Renuvion / J-Plasma) rather than a compression garment.

37. No protective sleeve was used for Patient C, and the use of protective sleeves at the
skin insertion of the device 1s a standard medical approach to avoid burns at the entry point of the
liposuction area.

38. Lastly, there are no details in the medical documentation for Patient C to elucidate
the settings utilized on the VASER device, which is a standard expectation in the medical
discipline Respondent is currently practicing in, despite having insufficient training.

COUNT
NRS 630.306(1)(c) - Practice Beyond Scope of License — Patient A

39. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

40. NRS 630.306(1}(e) provides that practicing or offering to practice beyond the
scope permitted by law or performing services which the licensee knows or has reason to know
that he or she is not competent to perform or which are beyond the scope of his or her training
constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

41. Liposuction requires a complex surgery, preferably at a well-equipped hospital, not
an outpatient office visit, where it was performed by Respondent in this case. Further,
Respondent is not ABMS certified for Plastic Surgery but rather has training as an internist and as
‘a general surgeon, with an array of short courses on aesthetic procedures. Respondent's

participation in these courses are not considered to be satisfactory training to perform major
ui


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1600 Gateway Drive



plastic or cosmetic surgical procedures, such as the procedures performed on Patient A, consisting
of ultrasonic liposuction with an abdominoplasty.

42. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records — Patient A

43. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

44. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate

and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute

grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee

45. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to correctly document his actions when he treated
Patient A, including but not limited to his failure to indicate that Patient A had multiple prior
hernia repairs as well as other abdominal surgeries (ie, a c-section) in her history and physical.
Further, Respondent's operative report does not indicate that the ultrasound assisted liposuction
(VASER) was performed, however record of the VASER procedure appears only in the operative
nursing notes. Lastly, there are no details in Respondent's operative report indicating the power
settings of that were used on the VASER device, the areas that were treated, nor the duration of
the treatment. As a result, Respondent's medical records for Patient A were not timely, legible,
accurate, and complete,

46. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630,352

COUNT II
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

47. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.
mW


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(795) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

wa ws

o

of
ar

48. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

49. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

50. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient B, by failing to clearly define the procedures being
performed, such as Renuvion and VASER, and failing to get, clear, informed consent for these
procedures. Further, a seroma developed and Respondent performed draining of the seroma,
without any evidence of informed consent obtained by Patient B this additional procedure.

51. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

col

Vv
NRS 630.306(1)(e) - Practice Beyond Scope of License - Patient B

52. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein,

53. NRS 630.306(1)(c) provides that practicing or offering to practice beyond the
‘scope permitted by law or performing services which the licensee knows or has reason to know
that he or she is not competent to perform or which are beyond the scope of his or her training
constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

54. Liposuction requires a complex surgery, preferably at a well-equipped hospital, not
an outpatient office visit, where it was performed by Respondent in this case. Further,
Respondent 1s not ABMS certified for Plastic Surgery nor Cosmetic Surgery but rather has
training as an internist and as a general surgeon with an array of short courses on aesthetic
procedures. This is not considered satisfactory training to perform major plastic surgery
procedures such as those procedures performed on Patient A, which consisted of ultrasonic

liposuction (Renuvion) and VASER.

8of 13

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(075) 688-2559




55. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNTY
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records ~ Patient B

56. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

57. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

58. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to correctly document his actions when he treated
Patient B, such as Patient’s B medical history in the history and physical portions of her records,
indicating that Patient B had multiple prior hernia repairs as well as other abdominal surgeries
(ie., a c-section). Further, Respondent's operative report does not indicate that the ultrasound
assisted liposuction (VASER) was performed, however record of the VASER procedure appears
only in the operative nursing notes. Lastly, there are no details in Respondent’s operative report
indicating the power settings of the device, the areas that were treated, nor the duration of the
treatment. As a result, Respondent’s medical records for Patient A were not timely, legible,
accurate, and complete.

59. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352

COUNT VI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice - Patient C

60, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein

61. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

wd


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

u


62. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

63. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient C, by failing to clearly define the procedures being
performed, such as Renuvion and VASER, and failing to get, clear, informed consent for these
procedures Respondent is not a Plastic Surgeon nor a Cosmetic Surgeon, and his lack of
satisfactory training in those disciplines may have been a contributing factor to Patient C’s
thermal injuries.

64. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT VII
NRS 630.306(1)(e) - Practice Beyond Scope of License — Patient C

65. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

66.  NRS 630.306(1)(e) provides that practicing or offering to practice beyond the
scope permitted by law or performing services which the licensee knows or has reason to know
that he or she is not competent to perform or which are beyond the scope of his or her training
constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

67. Liposuction requires a complex surgery, preferably at a well-equipped hospital, not
an outpatient office visit, where it was performed by Respondent in this case. Further,
Respondent is not ABMS certified for Plastic Surgery nor Cosmetic Surgery but rather has
training as an internist as and general surgeon with an array of short courses on aesthetic
procedures. This is not considered to be satisfactory training to perform major plastic surgery
procedures such as the procedures performed on Patient C, which consisted of ultrasonic
liposuction (Renuvion) and VASER.

Wy


‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

~aue un

o

u
a

68. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT VIII
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) - Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records — Patient C

69. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein

70. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the “failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient” constitute
grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

71. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient C, by failing to correctly document his actions when he treated
Patient C. The only documentation of the history and physical of Patient C was on the day of the
surgery, and there is no documentation in Respondent’s history and physical note identifying that
Patient C had previously had liposuction and other abdominal operations, which are important
considerations when determining the candidacy of a patient for the procedures he performed. As a
result, Respondent’s medical records for Patient A were not timely, legible, accurate, and
complete

72. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT 1X
NRS 630.306(1)(g) - Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct — For All Patients

73. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

74. Engaging in any act that is unsafe or unprofessional conduct in accordance with
regulations adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to
NRS 630.306(1)(p).

75. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent was

practicing beyond the scope of his training, and continually failed to exercise the skill or diligence


3 Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 8952

(075) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Boar

aaw

oo

rt
13,
an


or use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by physicians in good
standing practicing in the same specialty or field. Thus, Respondent's treatment of Patients A, B,
and C posed a significant risk to patient safety.

76. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint,

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.3393);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this is day of December, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

sy: i re

ALEXANDER J. HINMAN
Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

W


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of!
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this Sth day of December, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

BRET W. FREY, M.D.
Chairman’of the Investigative Committee


