9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-41463-1

Against: FI LED

AKINDELE EMMANUEL KOLADE, M.D.,
Respondent. DEC 12 2025

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
ME JINERS.

SETTLEMENT. AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Akindele Emmanuel Kolade, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attorneys, Maria Nutile and Bridget Kelly, of the law firm of Nutile Law,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!
A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on January 21, 2014, (License No. 15135).

2. On October 9, 2025, in Case No. 25-41463-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3), Violation of Statutes and

Regulations of the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy (Count 1); and one (I) violation of

‘an agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of these matters and
any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Any
admission to malpractice herein is limited to its use in NRS 630.301(4) and is not intended to replace or be interpreted
as professional negligence as used in civil litigation involving allegations under NRS Chapter 41A. Additionally,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


NRS 630.306(1)(p), Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct (Count II). By reason of the foregoing,
Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shal! advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.


(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

13.
15,

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

rv
15,

Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3),
Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy, and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.306(1)(p), Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct.

b. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada shall be
suspended with the suspension to be immediately stayed. Respondent’s license shall be subject to
suspension upon a term of probation period for twenty-four (24) months from the date of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement (Probationary Period). Respondent
must complete the following terms and conditions within the Probationary Period and demonstrate
compliance to the good faith satisfaction of the Board before or within twenty-four (24) months,
including but not limited to, payment in full of costs and fees imposed, and at the time he may
petition the Board to lift the probationary status of his license. If Respondent fails to demonstrate
compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or otherwise violates the terms of
this Agreement or the Medical Practice Act, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing on
immediate suspension of his license, which will be duly noticed.

c. Respondent shall notify to the Board of all international travel during the

Probationary Period. Specifically, not less than one (1) week prior to any planned international

40f9

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


travel, Respondent agrees to notify the Board, via email, of both his date of departure and his date
of return to the United States (“Travel Period”). In the event of emergency or open-ended
international travel, or changes to a reported Travel Period, Respondent agrees to notify the Board
of his actual Travel Period as soon as practicable. If during the Travel Period Respondent
prescribes a controlled substance, he shall provide the Board with medical records and billing
documentation which demonstrates the existence of a bona fide therapeutic relationship, as
defined in NAC 639.945(4), between the patient and the Respondent at the time the prescription is
issued. Respondent shall provide these documents no later than thirty (30) days from the date the
prescription is issued. Any failure to notify the Board of the Travel Period or to provide the
aforementioned documentation, may result in immediate suspension or other action as the Board
sees fit.

d. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of six thousand eight hundred and
seventy-nine dollars and eighty-seven cents ($6,879.87) in five (5) equal payments in the amount
of one thousand one hundred forty-six dollars and sixty-five cents ($1,146.65) and one (1) final
payment in the amount of one thousand one hundred forty-six dollars and sixty-two cents
($1,146.62). The first payment is due on or before January 15, 2026, the second payment is due on
or before February 16, 2026, the third payment is due on or before March 16, 2026, the fourth
payment is due on or before April 15, 2026, the fifth payment is due on or before May 15, 2026,
and the final payment is due on or before June 15, 2026. The costs and expenses as well as the
payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

e. Respondent shall pay a fine of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500)
in six (6) equal payments in the amount of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250). The
first payment is due on or before January 15, 2026, the second payment is due on or before
February 16, 2026, the third payment is due on or before March 16, 2026, the fourth payment is
due on or before April 15, 2026, the fifth payment is due on or before May 15, 2026, and the final
payment is due on or before June 15, 2026. The payment plan is subject to the Board’s

acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement.

Sof 9

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521


f. Respondent shall perform a twenty-one (21) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME), through the Proper Prescribing (RX-21) course offered by PBI education

(https://pbieducation.com/courses/rx-21/), within six (6) months of the Board’s acceptance,

adoption and approval of this Agreement. These twenty-one (21) hours of CME shall be in
addition to the CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1), and shall be approved by the Board prior to
their completion.

g This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

h. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

i. Any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative case
file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of

this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

Il. | Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

oN Aw

13,
15,

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Additionally, failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board pursuant to this
Agreement will result in immediate suspension pending resolution of any payment delinquency,
unless within ten (10) calendar days of the payment due date, Respondent notifies the Board in
writing of the inability to comply with the payment terms and requests to appear before the Board
at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting to request a modification to the payment(s) ordered
in this Agreement. Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed

to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this [J day of Wonmoer _, 2025. DATED this 14th day of November 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NUTILE LAW
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS
Draidlyst Kelly
By: a By: he
ALEXANDER J. HINMAN BRIDGET & KELLY, EQ.
Deputy General Counsel 7395 S. Pecos Rd., Suite 103
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89120
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 307-4871
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: bridget@nutilelaw.com
Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Co Om NA

u

Nov 14, 2025
DATED this day of » 2025.

By: itera
AKINDELE EMMANUEL KOLADE, M.D.
Nevada License No.
Respondent


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

a



ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 25-41463-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 12th day of
December, 2025.
DATED this 12th day of December, 2025.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

By: Lee 4 Specks,
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.D/, F.A.C.O.G.
Board President

