OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 69521

(075) 688.2559

wera ne

1"

aa


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Pere ry

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint ‘Case No. 25-48468-1

Against: FILED

BRIAN TRACY EVANS, M_D., SEP 12 2025

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P, Shogren, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attorney
for the IC, and Brian Tracy Evans, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted
by his attomey, Edward J Lemons, Esq, of the law firm of Lemons, Grundy & Bisenberg, hereby

enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the followi
A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Admmistrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on April 4, 2018 (License No 17826),

2. On April 23, 2025, in Case No. 25-48468-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I). By reason of the
foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in
NRS 630.352.

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litgation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state ot federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or erimnal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

13600 Gateway Deve
Reno, Nevada 69521

(075) 658.2559

it
13,

a

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights elude the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the_
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if}
the decision is adverse to him,

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's:
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement,
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the’
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
uw
mw

20f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 638-2559

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject (o the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement,

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters

addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administratrve matter Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f 8

‘9600 Gateway Drive
(O75) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

W

Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of this matter in the amount of three thousand one hundred niety-four dollars and
seventy-four cents ($3,194.74). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned costs and expenses by
way of six (6) payments, the first of five (5) payments in the amount of five hundred thirty-two
dollars and forty-five cents ($532.45) is due on or before October 12, 2025, the second payment ts
due on or before November 12, 2025, the third payment is due on or before December 12, 2025,
the fourth payment is due on or before January 12, 2026, and the fifth payment is due on or before
February 12, 2026. The sixth and final payment of five hundred forty-two dollars and thirty-nine
cents ($532.49) is due on or before March 12, 2026. The costs and expenses as well as the
payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement.

c Respondent shall pay a fine of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500)
by way of six (6) equal monthly payments of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) The first payment
is due on or before October 12, 2025, the second payment 1s due on or before November 12, 2025,
the third payment is due on or before December 12, 2025, the fourth payment is due on or before

January 12, 2026, the fifth payment is duc on or before February 12, 2026, and the sixth and final

4of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada Suite Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

‘Reno, Nevada 89521,

(75) 688.2589

aa un wn

ad

payment is due on or before March 12, 2026. The fine amount as well as the payment plan are
subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement.

d. Respondent shall perform six (6) hours of Continuing Medical Education|
(CMB), related to the subject of endovascular procedures, within six (6) months of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. These six (6) hours of CME shall be in
addition to the CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1), and shall be approved by the Board prior to
their completion

©. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

£ Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

& Any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative case
file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,

or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herei

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

resolution of this Complaint, In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of|

Sof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2558

Yauneen

vy

Pat

this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8 Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any’
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10, Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11, Forum Selection Clause, The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement ii

“a

district court, the party's consent to such

6 of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Bound of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
75) 688.0559,

waa weorn

it





jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.
12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms, Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630,3065(2)(a).
Additionally, failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board pursuant to this
Agreement will result in immediate suspension pending resolution of any payment delinquency,
unless within ten (10) calendar days of the payment due date, Respondent notifies the Board in
writing of the inability to comply with the payment terms and requests to appear before the Board
at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting to request a modification to the payment(s) ordered
mW
mw
mW
mw
mW
mw
mw
uw
mt
uw

Toft

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 69521,

(775) 656.2559

won

ve ear a ua

in this Agreement. Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed

to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this 7% day of July 2025. DATED this | 1 day of J he 2025.
ISENBERG

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE, LEMONS, GRUNDY & El

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL,
EXAMINERS

» Mab By;

WILLIAM P. SHOGREN
Deputy General Counsel

EDWARD J. LEMONS, ESQ
6005 Plumas St., 3rd Floor

9600 Gateway Drive Reno, NV 89519

Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (775) 786-6868
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: eil@lge.net
Email: shogrenw@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this 16 day of. July 2028.

BRIAN TRACY EVANS, M.D.,
Nevada License No. 17826
Respondent

8 oft

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

fevada 895521
(C75) 688-2589

Mt
15,
a4

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 25-48468-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 12th day of|
September, 2025.

DATED this _12th day of September, 2025.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS,

By: Lec A
NICK M. SPIRTOS-M.B,, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

