1 BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

2 OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

3 RRR


5 |} In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No, 25-41428-1

6 || Against: FILED

7 || AKASH BAJAJ, M.D., SEP 12 2025

8 || Respondent, NEVADA STATE BOARD. OF

9 eel
3 10 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
z j i The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners}
3 j 12 |] (Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and attorney
S } i i 3 ® for the IC, and Akash Bajaj, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, hereby enter into!
ae u a 14 |{ this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:! i
Es rH g& 15//4. BACKGROUND

3 16 1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board}

gz 17 |] pe suant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
BI 18 || Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in|

19 |} Nevada. His license was originally issued on February January 31, 2014 (License No. 15158).
20 2 On April 17, 2025, in Case No. 25-41428-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint}
21 || (Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the!
22 || Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301 (3), Disciplinary Action by Another Licensing

23 |} Board (Count I). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
24 || provided in NRS 630.352.

26 ' Alt agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely tor final disposition of these matters and
any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Any
27 |] admission to malpractice herein 1s limited to its use in NRS 630.301 (4) and is not intended to replace or be interpreted |
as professional negligence as used in civil litigation involving allegations under NRS Chapter 41A. Additionally,
28 |} Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, stich as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil cr erimmat proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1of 8 i

OFFICE OF 2H: GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada £9521
(075) 688.2559

FS

Sec weraw



3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if|
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
lisse, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondem understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
vi
Ww

2of8

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(O75) 658-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

eon

~ aw

Ww


B, TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdietion. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2 epresentation_by_Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_ Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is not represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein without counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
forgo a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to setile and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Procced. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act_ The IC acknowledges


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

a ww

w

Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that 1s grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I of the Complaint, one (1) violation of
NRS 630.301(3), Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the amount of seven hundred twenty-seven
dollars and seventy-one cents ($727.71), within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption, and approval of this Agreement.

¢. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

d. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

e. Respondent shall successfully complete his probationary period imposed
upon him by the Medical Board of California, as described in the Medical Board of California’s
Decision and Order issued on March 27, 2024, in its Case No. 800-2019-056941, and show proof|
of that successful completion to the Board, which is anticipated to end on March 27, 2026.

f. Respondent shall comply with all Orders, past or future, of the Medical
Board of California, specifically including, but not limited to, the Medical Board of California’s
Decision and Order, in its Case No. 800-2019-056941.

We

4o0f8

‘600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(95) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

iT



& If Respondent decides to practice medicine in the State of Nevada,
Respondent shall notify the Board no later than fourteen (14) calendar days before the
‘commencement date of his first day of practicing medicine in Nevada.

h. Any remaining claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative
case file(s) shall be dismissed with prejudice.

i. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent
understands and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff,
counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants
and agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in
response to information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a) Respondent agrees to release
the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts,
peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this
paragraph arising out of, or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration
of the case referenced herein.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shali
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of |
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that

Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this

Sof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

rt


Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

de Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

8. Effe jection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

10. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

ll. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys" fees and costs.

Ws
uw
ut
Wy


‘3600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(O75) 688-2859

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


12. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2){a).
Additionally, failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board pursuant to this
Agreement will result in immediate suspension pending resolution of any payment delinquency,
unless within ten (10) calendar days of the payment due date, Respondent notifies the Board in
writing of the inability to comply with the payment terms and requests to appear before the Board
at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting to request a modification to the payment(s) ordered
Wt
Wy
Wd
“i
Ww
ne
Ww
wt
Wy
wt
Ww
Ww
mw
i
“a
Wt

70f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

in this Agreement. Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed

to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this 1* day of -) ly 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

By:
WILLIAM. SHOGREN
Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521
Tel: (775) 688-2559
Email: shogrenw@medboard.nv gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

AGREED TO AND UNDERSTOOD.

zoe Bo
DATED this @ day ot _Uben = ,2025.
By: nn
ASASH BAIAL AD.
IS fo 13158
Respondent

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me by
Akash Bajaj, M.D. this day of
2 E

ATTACHED

NOTARY PUBLIC

8of8

[A notary public or other officer completing this,
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
\who signed the document to which this certificate
lis attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
\validity of that document.

State of California
County of LOS ANGELES

Subscribed and sworn to (or affirmed) before me on this 30
day of JUNE , 20.25, by

KASH BAJAD ,
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the
person(s) who appeared before me.
‘UBL M, LOPEZ CHAVEZ

etary Publ = Calor
Los Angles County

Commission #2438272
q My Comm, tooresnont 207

(Seal) Signature.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521

(75) 688-2589

ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregomg Settlement Agreement (Case No. 25-41428-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 12th day of
September, 2025.
DATED this _12th day of September, 2025.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL.
EXAMINERS

By geet AA
NICK M. SPIRTOS,M.B,, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

