BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-41428-1
Against: FILED
AKASH BAJAJ, M.D., APR 17 2025
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDL EXAMINERS
By:

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through William P. Shogren, Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Akash Bajaj, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and
allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 15158). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on January 31, 2014.

2. The Medical Board of California (California Board) is the licensing authority
regulating the practice of medicine in the State of California.

3. On or about April 26, 2024, the California Board issued a Disciplinary Order
(Order) disciplining Respondent’s California medical license for failing to meet the standard of
care for the treatment of three (3) patients. See Exhibit 1.

4. The Order places a stayed revocation on Respondent’s California medical license

with a two (2) year probationary period, requiring Respondent to complete the following 1) a

! The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Col. Eric D. Wade,
USAF (Ret.), and Hugh L. Bassewitz, M.D., FAAOS.


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


medical recordkeeping course; 2) obtain a practice monitor; 3) pay the costs associated with
probation monitoring; 4) complete a clinical competence assessment program; 5) submit proof of
the Order to required parties; 6) reimburse the costs of investigation; 7) comply with the Board’s
probation unit; and 8) to refrain from engaging in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s or
patient’s place of residence.
COUNT I
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board

5. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

6. NRS_ 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state or the surrender of a license while under investigation by any
licensing authority is grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

7. Respondent was disciplined by another state when the Medical Board of California
issued a Disciplinary Order, placing Respondent’s California medical license on probation for two
(2) years and requiring Respondent follow several terms and conditions, as outlined in the Order.

8. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this

case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

20f4

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


premises.

DATED this\ 1" day of April, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Wt

WILLIAM P. SHOGREN

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: shogrenw@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
2 SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 17th day of April, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Chairmaff of the Investigative Committee

40f4

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the First Amended

Accusation Against:
Case No.: 800-2019-056941

Akash Bajaj, M.D.

Physician’s and Surgeon’s
Certificate No. A 83927

Respondent.

DECISION

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby
adopted as the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California, Department
of Consumer Affairs, State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on April 26, 2024.

IT IS SO ORDERED: March 27, 2024.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

We

Laurie Rose Lubiano, J.D., Chair

Panel A
Medical Board of California
1 odo jerby Certify thyt this doctumout is a true and
eh ‘opy of the wig on file jn tis office.
/ AX y p
a a ue

A)

OEUEE Yew 06-2021


Ros BONTA

Attorney General of California

JuDITH T, ALVARADO

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

LATRICE R. HEMPHILL

Deputy Attorney General

State Bar No. 285973

300 So. Spring Street, Suite 1702

Los Angeles, CA 90013
Telephone: (213) 269-6198
Facsimile: (916) 731-2117

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the First Amended Accusation
Against:

AKASH BAJAJ, M.D.
13160 Mindanao Way, Suite 300
Marina del Ray, CA 90292-6393

Case No. 800-2019-056941
OAH No. 2022070169

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND
DISCIPLINARY ORDER

Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate
No. A 83927,

Respondent.

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-
entitled proceedings that the following matters are true:
PARTIES
1, Reji Varghese (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical Board of
California (Board). He brought this action solely in his official capacity and is represented in this
matter by Rob Bonta, Attorney General of the State of California, by Latrice R. Hemphill, Deputy

Attorney General.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

nN

Rw

0 Oo NAH

2. Respondent Akash Bajaj, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this proceeding by
attorney Courtney E. Pilchman, Esq., whose address is: 2030 Main Street, Suite 1300, Irvine, CA
92614-7220.

33 On or about July 11, 2003, the Board issued Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No.
A 83927 to Akash Bajaj, M.D. (Respondent). The Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate was in
full force and effect at all times relevant to the charges brought in First Amended Accusation No.
800-201 9-056941, and will expire on May 31, 2025, unless renewed.

JURISDICTION

4. First Amended Accusation No. 800-2019-056941 was filed before the Board, and is
currently pending against Respondent. The First Amended Accusation and all other statutorily
required documents were properly served on Respondent on October 31, 2023. Respondent
timely filed his Notice of Defense contesting the First Amended Accusation.

5. Acopy of First Amended Accusation No. 800-2019-056941 is attached as exhibit A
and incorporated herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

6. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
charges and allegations in First Amended Accusation No. 800-2019-056941. Respondent has
also carefully read, fully discussed with his counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

7. Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearing on the charges and allegations in the First Amended Accusation; the right to confront and
cross-examine the witnesses against him; the right to present evidence and to testify on his own
behalf; the right to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of documents; the right to reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision;
and all other rights accorded by the California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable
laws.

8. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up each and

every right set forth above.

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)


CULPABILITY

9. Respondent understands and agrees that the charges and allegations in First Amended
Accusation No. 800-2019-056941, if proven at a hearing, constitute cause for imposing discipline
upon his Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate.

10. Respondent does not contest that, at an administrative hearing, complainant could
establish a prima facie case with respect to the charges and allegations in First Amended
Accusation No. 800-2019-056941, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit
A, and that he has thereby subjected his Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate, No. A 83927 to
disciplinary action.

11. Respondent agrees that his Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate is subject to
discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Board's probationary terms as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below.

CONTINGENCY

12. This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of California.
Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical
Board of California may communicate directly with the Board regarding this stipulation and
settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or his counsel. By signing the
stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that he may not withdraw his agreement or seek
to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails
to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary
Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal
action between the parties, and the Board shall not be disqualified from further action by having
considered this matter.

13. Respondent agrees that if he ever petitions for early termination or modification of
probation, or if an accusation and/or petition to revoke probation is filed against him before the

proceeding or any other licensing proceeding involving Respondent in the State of California.


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

14. The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and facsimile
copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including PDF and facsimile
signatures thereto, shall have the same force and effect as the originals.

15. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree that
the Board may, without further notice or opportunity to be heard by the Respondent, issue and
enter the following Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. A 83927 issued
to Respondent Akash Bajaj, M.D. is revoked. However, the revocation is stayed and Respondent
is placed on probation for two (2) years on the following terms and conditions:

1. MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective

date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in medical record keeping approved in
advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider
with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of the course
not later than six (6) months after Respondent’s initial enrollment. Respondent shall successfully
complete any other component of the course within one (1) year of enrollment. The medical
record keeping course shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing
Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
First Amended Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole
discretion of the Board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the
course would have been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the
effective date of this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

2. MONITORING - PRACTICE. Within 30 calendar days of the effective date of this


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

Decision, Respondent shall submit to the Board or its designee for prior approval as a practice
monitor, the name and qualifications of one or more licensed physicians and surgeons whose
licenses are valid and in good standing, and who are preferably American Board of Medical
Specialties (ABMS) certified. A monitor shall have no prior or current business or personal
relationship with Respondent, or other relationship that could reasonably be expected to
compromise the ability of the monitor to render fair and unbiased reports to the Board, including
but not limited to any form of bartering, shall be in Respondent’s field of practice, and must agree
to serve as Respondent’s monitor. Respondent shall pay all monitoring costs.

The Board or its designee shall provide the approved monitor with copies of the Decision
and First Amended Accusation, and a proposed monitoring plan. Within 15 calendar days of
receipt of the Decision, First Amended Accusation, and proposed monitoring plan, the monitor
shall submit a signed statement that the monitor has read the Decision and First Amended
Accusation, fully understands the role of a monitor, and agrees or disagrees with the proposed
monitoring plan. If the monitor disagrees with the proposed monitoring plan, the monitor shall
submit a revised monitoring plan with the signed statement for approval by the Board or its
designee.

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, and continuing throughout
probation, Respondent's practice shal! be monitored by the approved monitor. Respondent shall
make all records available for immediate inspection and copying on the premises by the monitor
at all times during business hours and shall retain the records for the entire term of probation.

If Respondent fails to obtain approval of a monitor within 60 calendar days of the effective
date of this Decision, Respondent shall receive a notification from the Board or its designee to
cease the practice of medicine within three (3) calendar days after being so notified. Respondent
shall cease the practice of medicine until a monitor is approved to provide monitoring
responsibility.

The monitor shall submit a quarterly written report to the Board or its designee which
includes an evaluation of Respondent’s performance, indicating whether Respondent’s practices
are within the standards of practice of medicine, and whether Respondent is practicing medicine

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)


Xo)

safely, billing appropriately or both. It shall be the sole responsibility of Respondent to ensure
that the monitor submits the quarterly written reports to the Board or its designee within 10
calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter.

If the monitor resigns or is no longer available, Respondent shall, within 5 calendar days of
such resignation or unavailability, submit to the Board or its designee, for prior approval, the
name and qualifications of a replacement monitor who will be assuming that responsibility within
15 calendar days. If Respondent fails to obtain approval of a replacement monitor within 60
calendar days of the resignation or unavailability of the monitor, Respondent shall receive a
notification from the Board or its designee to cease the practice of medicine within three (3)
calendar days after being so notified. Respondent shall cease the practice of medicine until a
replacement monitor is approved and assumes monitoring responsibility.

In lieu of a monitor, Respondent may participate in a professional enhancement program
approved in advance by the Board or its designee that includes, at minimum, quarterly chart
review, semi-annual practice assessment, and semi-annual review of professional growth and
education. Respondent shall participate in the professional enhancement program at

Respondent’s expense during the term of probation.

3. CLINICAL COMPETENCE ASSESSMENT PROGRAM. Within 60 calendar days

of the effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a clinical competence assessment
program approved in advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent shall successfully
complete the program not later than six (6) months after Respondents initial enrollment unless
the Board or its designee agrees in writing to an extension of that time.

The program shall consist of a comprehensive assessment of Respondent’s physical and
mental health and the six general domains of clinical competence as defined by the Accreditation
Council on Graduate Medical Education and American Board of Medical Specialties pertaining to
Respondents current or intended area of practice. The program shall take into account data
obtained from the pre-assessment, self-report forms and interview, and the Decision, First
Amended Accusation, and any other information that the Board or its designee deems relevant.
The program shall require Respondent’s on-site participation for a minimum of three (3) and no

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)


more than five (5) days as determined by the program for the assessment and clinical education
evaluation. Respondent shall pay all expenses associated with the clinical competence
assessment program.

At the end of the evaluation, the program will submit a report to the Board or its designee
which unequivocally states whether the Respondent has demonstrated the ability to practice
safely and independently. Based on Respondent’s performance on the clinical competence
assessment, the program will advise the Board or its designee of its recommendation(s) for the
scope and length of any additional educational or clinical training, evaluation or treatment for any
medical condition or psychological condition, or anything else affecting Respondent’s practice of
medicine. Respondent shall comply with the program’s recommendations.

Determination as to whether Respondent successfully completed the clinical competence
assessment program is solely within the program’s jurisdiction.

If Respondent fails to enroll, participate in, or successfully complete the clinical
competence assessment program within the designated time period, Respondent shall receive a
notification from the Board or its designee to cease the practice of medicine within three (3)
calendar days after being so notified. The Respondent shal! not resume the practice of medicine
until enrollment or participation in the outstanding portions of the clinical competence assessment
program have been completed. If the Respondent did not successfully complete the clinical
competence assessment program, the Respondent shall not resume the practice of medicine until a
final decision has been rendered on the accusation and/or a petition to revoke probation. The
cessation of practice shall not apply to the reduction of the probationary time period

4. NOTIFICATION. Within seven (7) days of the effective date of this Decision, the
Respondent shall provide a true copy of this Decision and First Amended Accusation to the Chief
of Staff or the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are
extended to Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of
medicine, including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the
Chief Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage

to Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board or its designee within

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-201 9-056941)

Noe

A wk w

15 calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or insurance carrier.

5. OBEY ALL LAWS. Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules
governing the practice of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered criminal probation, payments, and other orders.

6. INVESTIGATION/ENFORCEMENT COST RECOVERY. Respondent is hereby
ordered to reimburse the Board its costs of investigation and enforcement, including, but not
limited to, expert review, amended accusations, legal reviews, investigation(s), and subpoena
enforcement, as applicable, in the amount of $39,781.00 (thirty-nine thousand seven hundred
eighty one dollars and zero cents). Costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of California.
Failure to pay such costs shall be considered a violation of probation.

Payment must be made in full within 30 calendar days of the effective date of the Order, or
by a payment plan approved by the Medical Board of California. Any and all requests for a
payment plan shall be submitted in writing by respondent to the Board. Failure to comply with
the payment plan shall be considered a violation of probation.

The filing of bankruptcy by respondent shall not relieve respondent of the responsibility to
repay investigation and enforcement costs.

1h QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations

under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has been
compliance with all the conditions of probation.

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end
of the preceding quarter.

8. GENERAL PROBATION REQUIREMENTS.

Compliance with Probation Unit

Respondent shall comply with the Board’s probation unit.

Address Changes

Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of Respondent’s business and

residence addresses, email address (if available), and telephone number. Changes of such


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

addresses shall be immediately communicated in writing to the Board or its designee. Under no

2 || circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business
3 || and Professions Code section 2021, subdivision (b).
4 Place of Practice
5 Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s or patient’s place
6 |] of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled nursing facility or other similar licensed
7 || facility.
8 License Renewal
9 Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and surgeon’s
10 || license.
11 Travel or Residence Outside California
12 Respondent shall immediately inform the Board or its designee, in writing, of travel to any

13 |} areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last, more than thirty
14 |] (30) calendar days.

15 In the event Respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to practice

16 || Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of
17 || departure and return.

18 9. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE. Respondent shall be

19 || available in person upon request for interviews either at Respondents place of business or at the
20 || probation unit office, with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

21 10. NON-PRACTICE WHILE ON PROBATION. Respondent shall notify the Board or

22 || its designee in writing within 15 calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than
23 || 30 calendar days and within 15 calendar days of Respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice is
24 || defined as any period of time Respondent is not practicing medicine as defined in Business and
25 || Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at least 40 hours ina calendar month in direct

26 || patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board. If

27 || Respondent resides in California and is considered to be in non-practice, Respondent shall

28 || comply with all terms and conditions of probation. All time spent in an intensive training


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

cic

1 || program which has been approved by the Board or its designee shall not be considered non-
practice and does not relieve Respondent from complying with all the terms and conditions of
probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United States or Federal jurisdiction while
on probation with the medical licensing authority of that state or jurisdiction shall not be

considered non-practice. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a

period of non-practice.


In the event Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation exceeds 18 calendar

months, Respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State Medical Boards’ Special

oo

Purpose Examination, or, at the Board’s discretion, a clinical competence assessment program
10 || that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current version of the Board’s “Manual of Model

11 || Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

12 Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two (2) years.
13 Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term.
14 Periods of non-practice for a Respondent residing outside of California will relieve

15 || Respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the
16 || exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws;
17 || General Probation Requirements; Quarterly Declarations; Abstain from the Use of Alcohol and/or
18 || Controlled Substances; and Biological Fluid Testing.

19 11. COMPLETION OF PROBATION. Respondent shall comply with all financial

20 || obligations (e.g., restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the

21 || completion of probation. This term does not include cost recovery, which is due within 30

22 || calendar days of the effective date of the Order, or by a payment plan approved by the Medical
23 || Board and timely satisfied. Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent’s certificate

24 || shall be fully restored.
25 12. VIOLATION OF PROBATION. Failure to fully comply with any term or condition

26 || of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any respect, the
27 || Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke probation and
28 || carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, or Petition to Revoke

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-05694 1)

i

Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation, the
Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation shall
be extended until the matter is final.

13. LICENSE SURRENDER. Following the effective date of this Decision, if
Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request to surrender his or her license.
The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion in
determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate
and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, Respondent
shall within 15 calendar days deliver Respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its
designee and Respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject
to the terms and conditions of probation. If Respondent re-applies for a medical license, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

14. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS. Respondent shall pay the costs associated
with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which
may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of
California and delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 of each calendar
year.

15. FUTURE ADMISSIONS CLAUSE. If Respondent should ever apply or reapply for

a new license or certification, or petition for reinstatement of a license, by any other health care
licensing action agency in the State of California, all of the charges and allegations contained in
First Amended Accusation No. 800-2019-056941 shall be deemed to be true, correct, and
admitted by Respondent for the purpose of any Statement of Issues or any other proceeding
seeking to deny or restrict license.
MM
Mt
Mt
Mi


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-05694 1)

oe

Nest! On EE Sim ON Eee es! © ee) ee me re ree

ACCEPTANCE
I have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
discussed it with my attorney, Courtney E. Pilchman, Esq. I understand the stipulation and the

effect it will have on my Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate. I enter into this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be

bound by the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California.

DATED: 2.13.24 a

AKASH BAJAJ, M.D.
Respondent

Thave read and fully discussed with Respondent Akash Bajaj, M.D. the terms and

conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

I approve its form and content.

DATED: 2/13/24 ( dun \
COURTNEY E. PILCHMAN, ESQ.

Attorney for Respondent

ENDORSEMENT

The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California.

DATED: Respectfully submitted,

Ros BONTA

Attorney General of California
JupitH T. ALVARADO

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

LATRICE R. HEMPHILL
Deputy Attorney General
Altorneys for Complainant

LA2022601480
66570782.docx


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

win

wv

a eo

ACCEPTANCE

Ihave carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
discussed it with my attorney, Courtney E. Pilchman, Esq. I understand the stipulation and the
effect it will have on my Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate. I enter into this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be

bound by the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California.

DATED:

AKASH BAJAJ, M.D.
Respondent

I have read and fully discussed with Respondent Akash Bajaj, M.D. the terms and
conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order.
T approve its form and content.

DATED:

COURTNEY E. PILCHMAN, ESQ.
Attorney for Respondent

ENDORSEMENT
The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California.

DATED: February 14, 2024 Respectfully submitted,

Ros BONTA

Attorney General of California
JupDITH T, ALVARADO

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

LATRICE R. HEMPHILL
Deputy Attorney General
Attorneys for Complainant

LA2022601480
66570782.docx


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2019-056941)

