‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688.2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
"Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

u


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

errs
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-47823-1
DAVID JAMES SMITH, M.D., JUN 24 2005
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
} By:
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
by and through Donald K. White, Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that David James Smith, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and
allegations as follows:

1 Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active-probation license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 17853). Respondent
was originally licensed by the Board on April 16, 2018.

2. Respondent was also licensed by the California Medical Board (California Board)
(Certificate No. F66777). This license was issued on August 21, 1989, and expired
January 31, 2025.

3. Between 2018 and 2022, several legal matters were addressed through the California
Board and the State Courts of California through an appeals process

4, The California Board sought to revoke Respondent's probation through a duly noticed

hearing and was submitted for decision on June 14, 2024.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Carl N. Williams, Jr., M.D.,
and Col Eric D Wade (USAF) Ret.

lof4

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89525
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

TT


5. The California Board ultimately determined in its Decision in case no. 800-2021-
081615 that a complete revocation of Respondent’s probation and California physicran’s license was
appropriate. See Exhibit 1.

6. Respondent's license to practice medicine in California was revoked on July 25, 2024.

COUNT
NRS 630.301 (3) - Disciplinary Action by Another State Medical Board

7. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8. NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without limitation,
the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type of medicine,
taken by another state, among other parties, is grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a
licensee.

9. Pursuant to « Decision dated July 25, 2024, in case no. 800-2021-081615, the
California Board found that “the probation granted to respondent David James Smith in Case
No. 800-2018-042234, is revoked. The stay of the disciplinary order is lifted. Respondent's
Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No. G 66777 is revoked.”

10. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays.

1 That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early Case
Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been a
violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this case

as outlined in NRS 622.400;

20f4

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(O75) 685-2559



5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and
6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises,
DATED this Z7“4ay of une, 2025,
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

By.

DOSALD K WHITE

Senior Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

30f4

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521
(775) 88-2559

iT

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the
foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation
into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing
Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this ye, of June, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

BRET W Efe, M.D.
Chairman the Investigative Committee

4of4

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Petition to Revoke
Probation Against:

David James Smith, M.D. Case No. 800-2021-081615

Physician’s & Surgeon's
Certificate No. G 66777

Respondent.

DECISION

The attached Proposed Decision is hereby adopted as the Decision and
Order of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, State
of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on August 23, 2024.
IT 1S SO ORDERED: July 25, 2024.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

é

Richard E. Thorp, M.
Panel B

‘2c y98 ay 912019)
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Petition to Revoke Probation Against:

DAVID JAMES SMITH, M.D., Physician's and Surgeon's
Certificate No. G 66777, Respondent

Agency Case No. 800-2021-081615

OAH No. 2023090106

PROPOSED DECISION

Alan R. Alvord, Administrative Law Judge (ALi), Office of Administrative
Hearings (OAH), State of California, heard this matter by videoconference on April 24,
2024, and May 23 and 24, 2024.

Joseph F. McKenna Ill, Deputy Attorney General, represented petitioner Reji
Varghese, Executive Director, Medical Board of California (board), Department of

Consumer Affairs.

Matthew D. Rifat, Law Offices of Matthew D. Rifat, APC, represented respondent

David James Smith, M.D., who was present throughout the hearing

Oral and documentary evidence was received. The record was held open to

allow the parties to submit written closing arguments. Written closing arguments and
rebuttals were received. The record was closed, and the matter was submitted for
decision on June 14, 2024,

PROTECTIVE ORDERS SEALING CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS

To protect the privacy of individuals whose personal information is contained in
the documents, and because it is impractical to redact the private information, the
following documents were sealed from public disclosure under Government Code

section 11425.20 and California Code of Regulations, title 1, section 1030.

Exhibits 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, and 27, in their entirety.

DECISION SUMMARY

The board sought to revoke respondent's probation based on alleged violations
of probationary terms that demonstrated unprofessional conduct. Respondent's
probation prohibited him from practice involving intrathecal pumps. Respondent
provided intrathecal pump treatment to three patients at a time when he was
prohibited from doing so. In addition, respondent violated his informed consent duty
to patients by knowingly making false and misleading disclosures to patients
concerning his disciplinary status. These false statements to patients constituted
unprofessional conduct. Based on the evidence in this case, the only remedy that

ensures public protection is revocation of respondent's probation, thereby revoking

his physician's and surgeon's certificate.
FACTUAL FINDINGS

Jurisdictional Matters

i The board issued Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 66777 to
respondent on August 21, 1989. The certificate is in full force and effect and expires
January 31, 2025, unless renewed.

2 On July 11, 2023, petitioner issued a Petition to Revoke Probation.

Respondent submitted a timely notice of defense. This hearing followed.
Summary of Allegations and Defenses

ae Petitioner asserted one cause to revoke probation, alleging respondent
engaged in unprofessional conduct and failed to comply with the terms of his.
probation by performing care or treatment with patients involving the use,
management, or surgical procedure related to intrathecal (IT) pumps on at least three
patients (labeled A, B, and C) at a time when he was prohibited from doing so, and by

knowingly making false and misleading written disclosures that misrepresented his
probation status and practice restrictions.

4. Respondent argued that he was not prohibited from performing any IT
pump care with patients A, B, and C, at the time because of a Superior Court judgment
granting a writ of administrative mandate, and a Medical Board letter lifting his IT
pump practice restriction. Respondent also argued that some of the care he rendered
to the patients was not prohibited because it was not IT pump treatment. Respondent
also raised due process issues concerning partially redacted information given in

discovery that he contends denied him a fair hearing.
Respondent's Motion to Exclude Exhibit 15 and Gojny Testimony

5. During the first day of hearing, respondent objected to petitioner's
Exhibit 15, the investigation report, and to the testimony of petitioner's investigator,
Lucila Gojny A briefing schedule was established. On May 9, 2024, respondent filed a
motion to exclude Ms. Gojny's testimony and Exhibit 15. Petitioner filed an opposition
on May 16, 2024, and respondent filed a reply on May 17, 2024. On May 19, 2024,
OAH issued a written tentative ruling denying the motion. The parties were given an
opportunity for oral argument at the hearing on May 23, 2024, and the tentative ruling
was confirmed on the record, Respondent had notice of the redacted material since
August 2023 and did not file a motion to compel. The redacted material properly
protected the identity of an anonymous informant. Petitioner provided a partially
unredacted copy of Exhibit 15, and respondent had an opportunity at hearing to
question Ms. Gojny about the information in the exhibit. Respondent was not denied

due process; his motion was therefore denied.
History of Prior Discipline

6. The chronology of respondent's prior discipline is important to the
outcome of this case. The prior disciplinary matters and board and court actions are

therefore discussed in chronological order.
‘THE BOARD'S 2020 DECISION PLACING RESPONDENT ON PROBATION

7. The board's Executive Officer issued an accusation against respondent's
license on April 27, 2018 (Case No. 800-2015-012651), alleging violations of the
Medical Practice Act. A first amended accusation added additional alleged violations
regarding respondent's care and treatment of five patients using IT pumps, labeled

anonymously A through E. Respondent's treatment of these five patients occurred at
various times between 2004 and 2017. The matter (OAH No. 2018080617) proceeded
to hearing in September and October 2019, and January 2020. On August 25, 2020, the
board adopted the administrative law judge's proposed decision, with an effective
date of September 25, 2020 (2020 Board Decision). In this Proposed decision, board

disciplinary decisions are identified by the year the decision became effective, not the
date the AU issued the decisions.

8. The 2020 Board Decision found that respondent committed gross
negligence in his care and treatment of Patients A, B, C, and D; repeated negligent acts
in the care and treatment of Patients A, B, C, D, and ; incompetence in his care and
treatment of Patient A; excessively prescribed drugs to Patients A, B, and C; failed to
maintain adequate and accurate records in connection with his care and treatment of
Patients A, B, C, D, and E; and engaged in unprofessional conduct in his care and

treatment of Patients A, B, C, D, and E.

9. The 2020 Board Decision revoked respondent's certificate, stayed the
revocation, and placed respondent on probation for seven years with certain terms
and conditions. The terms and conditions relevant to the petition include maintaining
a controlled substance prescription log; taking education courses, a prescribing
practices course, a medical record keeping course, and an ethics course; completing a
clinical competence assessment program, having a practice monitor; and disclosing his
discipline to patients. The 2020 Board Decision prohibited respondent from

prescribing certain controlled substances and from:

performing any care or treatment with patients involving
the use, management or any surgical procedures related to

intrathecal pumps until after successful completion of
Clinical Competence Assessment Program has been
provided to the board,

10. Respondent filed a writ petition in the Superior Court (Case

No. 20STCP03757) challenging the 2020 Board Decision on November 13, 2020,

(Writ 1). The Superior Court granted the petition in Writ I and overturned the 2020
Board Decision on January 24, 2022. The details of the Superior Court's ruling on Writ!

and the board's subsequent actions are discussed below.

11. During the two years that Writ I was pending, there were many other

events that are relevant to this case
THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER FiLes New ACCUSATION DECEMBER 22, 2020

12. Petitioner, as complainant, filed a new accusation (2020 Accusation), Case
No. 800-2018-042234, against respondent on December 22, 2020, three months after
the 2020 Board Decision became effective. The 2020 Accusation concerned
respondent's IT pump treatment of three additional patients in 2015 through 2018,
and alleged respondent committed gross negligence, repeated negligent acts,
engaged in unprofessional conduct, and failed to maintain adequate and accurate

medical records.

13. The 2020 Accusation went to hearing in October 2021 and resulted in

additional discipline. The outcome of that case is discussed below.

RESPONDENT COMPLETES CLINICAL COMPETENCE ASSESSMENT AND THE
Board Lirts RESPONDENT'S IT PuMP RESTRICTION ON OCTOBER 19, 2021

14, The 2020 Board Decision ordered respondent to complete a board-

approved clinical competence assessment and education program before he could
resume prescribing controlled substances and IT pump therapy with patients. In the
fall of 2021, respondent completed a clinical competence assessment program

through Knowledge, Skills, Training, Assessment, and Research (KSTAR), affiliated with
Texas A&M University.

15. On October 19, 2021, two months before the board adopted the 2022
Board Decision discussed in the next section, the board's probation monitor, Virginia
Addis, issued a letter to respondent stating that respondent's restrictions against
prescribing controlled substances and performing IT treatment imposed by the 2020
Board Decision were lifted because of his successful completion of the required clinical

competence assessment and education program.

16. The board's letter lifting respondent's IT pump practice restriction was
issued the same month that the hearing on the 2020 Accusation was held, but before
the issues raised in that case were decided. The board correctly lifted respondent's IT
pump practice restriction in October 2021, since he had complied with the 2020 Board
Decision’s clinical competence assessment requirement. The 2020 Board Decision, at
the time, was the only discipline respondent was under. Although the board had grave
concerns about respondent's IT pump practice, as expressed in the 2020 Accusation,
that case had not yet been decided, It would have been inappropriate for the board to
withhold the October 2021 letter releasing respondent from the IT pump practice
restriction since the board's concerns expressed in the 2020 Accusation had not yet

been adjudicated.
2022 BOARD DECISION ON THE 2020 ACCUSATION

17. The 2020 Accusation proceeded to hearing on October 4 through 8, and
11, 2021. At that hearing, respondent testified that he had completed the KSTAR

clinical competence course. The AL's factual finding 235 was:

Respondent stated he has completed the clinical
competence assessment course and can now perform

surgical procedures related to intrathecal pumps.

This ALJ finding shows that, before the board issued the letter to respondent
dated October 19, 2021, which informed him his IT pump restriction was lifted,
respondent asserted in testimony under penalty of perjury that he was already free

from the IT pump probationary restriction.

18. On December 22, 2021, the board adopted the AU's proposed decision
with an effective date of January 21, 2022 (2022 Board Decision). There was no
indication in the 2022 Board Decision that the AU was aware of the board's
October 19, 2021, letter lifting the IT pump practice restriction. Although respondent
testified in that hearing he completed the KSTAR clinical competence course, it

appears no KSTAR records were offered, or admitted into evidence in that case.

19, The 2022 Board Decision found that respondent's misconduct with two
patients was serious and exposed the patients to actual harm. Respondent excessively
administered fentanyl to the patients. He increased their dose of fentanyl, described as.
“haphazard,” even when both patients reported their pain levels and functioning
improved, The 2022 Board Decision specifically mentions respondent's completion of

the clinical competence assessment as a factor in respondent's favor.
20.

The 2022 Board Decision fashioned a remedy designed to protect the

public but not to punish respondent in consideration of his, at that time, two years of

probation compliance, including his completion of the clinical competence

assessment.

21.

The 2022 Board Decision imposed a new probationary practice restriction

‘on respondent:

22.

Physician and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 66777 issued to
David James Smith, M.D. is revoked. However, the
revocation is stayed, and respondent is placed on probation
for the duration of his probation in {the 2020 Board

Decision], with the following additional term:

Respondent is prohibited from performing any care or
treatment with patients involving the use, management, or
any surgical procedure related to intrathecal pumps, or
advising any medical provider on the care or treatment of
patients involving the use, management, or any surgical
procedure related to intrathecal pumps, for the duration of

his probation in {the 2020 Decision].

It is this 2022 Board Decision practice restriction that petitioner in the

present case asserts respondent has violated.

23.

The chronology thus far shows that the board's letter lifting respondent's

TT pump practice restriction effectively removed the restriction beginning October 19,

2021, the date the letter was issued, until January 21, 2022, when the 2022 Board
Decision became effective. As of January 21, 2022, respondent was again prohibited

from IT pump practice by the 2022 Board Decision.

24, On February 17, 2022, respondent filed a writ petition in the Superior
Court (Case No. 22STCP00574) challenging the 2022 Board Decision (Writ II). The
Superior Court in the Writ Il case denied respondent's writ and upheld the 2022 Board
Decision by judgment entered February 5, 2024. Details of the Writ Il decision are
discussed in their chronological position below.

FEBRUARY 28, 2022 — Writ I SUPERIOR COURT OVERTURNS THE 2020
Boarb DECISION

25. In the hearing that led to the 2020 Board Decision, the ALJ excluded
respondent's expert from testifying because respondent had not complied with the
expert witness disclosure requirements of Business and Professions Code section 2334.
Respondent argued in his writ petition challenging the 2020 Board Decision, among
other things, that the AU erred by excluding respondent's expert witness from
testifying. On January 24, 2022, the Superior Court issued an order granting
respondent's petition for writ of administrative mandate. The court agreed with
respondent's argument that the ALJ erred in excluding some of respondent's expert
witness testimony. However, the court found that, as to two of the five patients, the

AU did not commit legal error. The court expressed its reasoning:

While the court agrees (Dr. Smith's] expert disclosures
contained significant deficiencies, the expert disclosures did
sufficiently express some opinions for some patients and
identified facts upon which [Dr. Smiths] expert relied for

foundation. Thus, the AL's wholesale preclusion of any and

all testimony from [Or. Smith's] expert was error depriving
(Dr. Smith] of the ability to mount a full defense to the
amended accusation. Based on [Dr. Smith's] expert
disclosures, while exclusion of much of the proffered
expert's testimony was warranted for [Dr. Smith’s] failure to
comply with Section 2334, the ALI should have permitted

(Dr. Smith’s} expert to testify about several of his opinions.

The court then analyzed respondent's expert disclosure with regard to each of

the patients (A, B, C, D, and E) in the amended accusation, concluding:

The court finds the AU) did not commit legal error when she
excluded [Dr. Smith's expert's) witness testimony
concerning Patients B and E based on [Dr. Smith's] failure to
comply with Section 2334. Thus, [the board's] claims as to
Patients B and € were (properly) not defended with expert

testimony.
26. Ina footnote, the court stated:

[The board's} decision concerning Patients B and E is not
impacted by the court's decision about the AU's wholesale
exclusion of expert witness testimony. [The board's}.
decision as to Patients A, C and D, however, may have been
impacted only to the extent the properly disclosed specific

opinions about these patients were excluded by the AU.

27. On February 28, 2022, the Superior Court entered judgment granting the
writ. The court set aside the 2020 Board Decision.
ait
28. Because of this Superior Court judgment, as of February 28, 2022,
respondent was no longer on the probation established in the 2020 Board Decision.
However, respondent was still on probation from the 2022 Board Decision, which had
created a separate probation with a single probationary condition: the prohibition on

IT pump practice.

THE BOARD Sets AsIDE Its 2020 BoarD DECISION, HOLDS ORAL
ARGUMENT, IssuES A NEW 2022 BOARD REMAND DECISION MODIFYING

RESPONDENT'S PROBATION

29, On June 9, 2022, to comply with the Superior Court’s order, the board
issued an order setting aside the 2020 Board Decision. The board noticed oral
arguments to be held on July 22, 2022. An AU presided over the oral arguments with a

board panel. Respondent appeared and was represented by counsel.

30. At the oral argument, the AU sitting with the board panel did not allow
any new evidence. The hearing was treated as a reconsideration of the 2020 Board
Decision and was noticed for the purpose determining the level of discipline as it

relates to Patients B and E in light of the Superior Court's ruling

31, Respondent testified at that oral argument before the board. On
page 39, line 9, of the transcript, respondent testified:

Ido want to make one other correction to Mr. McKenna's
comments, though. My discipline — even though the judge
set aside the order, my probation officer, Virgina Addis, has
made it clear that as far as she’s concerned and the people

in Sacramento are concerned, nothing has changed.

32, ° On August 11, 2022, the board issued its decision after remand (2022

Board Remand Decision), effective immediately and retroactive to September 24, 2020.

33, The 2022 Board Remand Decision placed respondent's physician's
certificate on probation for five years, retroactive to September 24, 2020, It included all
probationary terms of the 2020 Board Decision except the requirement to give patient
disclosures about respondent's probation status and practice restrictions. Although the
2022 Board Remand Decision retained the probationary term requiring respondent to
complete a clinical competence assessment program, the board's order stated,
“respondent is to receive full credit for all periods of probation already served and any
term of probation already satisfied before the Superior Court remanded this matter
back to the Board.”

34, Thus, the 2022 Board Remand Decision did not re-establish the
requirement for respondent to complete the clinical competence assessment program,
Respondent was given credit for having already completed the KSTAR program and

the board's October 2021 letter lifting the IT practice restriction.

35. Respondent filed a writ petition in Superior Court (Case

No. 22STCP03155) challenging the 2022 Board Remand Decision on August 26, 2022,
(Writ Il). The Superior Court denied the writ and upheld the 2022 Board Remand
Decision by judgment entered on January 2, 2024.

RESPONDENT'S ATTORNEY ARGUES THE 2022 BOARD DECISION Is VOID AS
A MATTER OF LAW; THE BOARD REJECTS THE ARGUMENT

36. In August 2022, after the board issued the 2022 Board Remand Decision,
the board sent respondent a notice about what it would list on the board's public

website concerning respondent's disciplinary status. The board's disclosure, among
other things, stated that respondent was prohibited from performing IT pump care or
treatment. The notice allowed respondent 10 working days to offer proposed

corrections to the language of the disclosure.

37. On August 23, 2022, respondent's attorney, Mr. Rifat, sent a letter to the
board arguing that the board's proposed website disclosure was “inaccurate and
incomplete” and “false and misleading.” Mr. Rifat asserted the 2022 Board Decision
was “void as a matter of law.” Mr. Rifat stated, “we expect that will be confirmed
shortly by the Superior Court." Mr. Rifat proposed a different public disclosure that
removed any mention of IT pump practice restrictions and, with regard to the 2022

Board Decision, stated,

The Medical Board previously additionally imposed
discipline on December 22, 2021. That disciplinary order
relied on the order that was set aside by the Superior Court
and the Medical Board and the licensee are litigating the
validity of that order.

The board rejected Mr. Rifat’s suggested changes to the public disclosure. The

board retained the public disclosure language that respondent was:

prohibited from performing any care or treatment with
patients involving the use, management, or any surgical
procedures related to intrathecal pumps, or advising any
medical provider on the care or treatment of patients
involving the use, management, or any surgical procedure
related to intrathecal pumps, for the duration of Dr. Smith's

probation.

Fepruary 5, 2024, Wait II Superior Court UPHOLDS THE 2022 BOARD
DECISION

38. _ In the Writ Il proceeding, respondent argued, among other things, that
the 2022 Board Decision was "void" because it tied itself to the 2020 Board Decision
that had been overturned in the Writ I proceeding, The Writ Il Superior Court rejected
that argument, describing it as “defective.” The Superior Court found that the 2022
Board Decision was a “stand-alone” decision placing respondent on probation with an

IT pump practice restriction despite the Writ I court having overturned the 2020 Board

Decision.

39. During the one and one-half years the Writ Il proceeding was pending,
respondent started treating IT pump patients again. That treatment is discussed in the

next section.

Respondent Treats Patients A, B, and C, Giving Rise to This Petition to

Revoke Probation

40. Respondent's treatment of the three patients at issue in this case
occurred between August 25, 2022, and November 22, 2022.

41, The first alleged violation of the IT pump restriction occurred when
respondent treated Patient B on August 25, 2022, two weeks after the board issued the
2022 Board Remand Decision, and one day before respondent filed his Writ II petition
challenging the 2022 Board Remand Decision.

TT Pump TREATMENT

42. An IT pump is a medical device that delivers drugs directly into the fluid-
filled (intrathecal) space between the spinal cord and the protective sheath around it.
When implanting an IT pump, the patient is placed under general anesthesia. A C-arm
fluoroscope is placed around the patient to provide x-ray images to assist the surgeon
in locating and placing the devices. The surgeon makes two incisions: one in the
abdomen and one near the spine, The IT pump is placed in a pocket under the skin in
the abdomen. A catheter is tunneled under the skin between the pump and the spine.
One end of the catheter is connected to the pump. The other end of the catheter is
inserted into the intrathecal space and anchored. The pump's reservoir contains the
medication and is programmed to deliver the correct dosage and timing of medication

to the intrathecal space, delivering pain relief.

43. Aphysician uses a telemetry device to remotely access the pump and can

read information about the pump’s function and adjust the pump's operation.

44, IT pump therapy is an intensive pain management modality. It requires a
long-term, trusting relationship between patient and physician. Patients must be
carefully selected. Psychological testing of the patient is recommended. Sefore
choosing IT pump treatment, a test is performed using either an external catheter or a
syringe to inject pain medication into the intrathecal space to determine if the patient
experiences pain relief. Respondent and petitioner's expert both testified that an IT

pump physician must be prepared to “marry the patient.”
Patient A: IT Pump EXPLANT AND FOLLOW Up CARE

45. On September 1, 2022, respondent performed an explant of Patient A’s

existing IT pump. The explant procedure, also done under general anesthesia, involves
incisions at the abdomen and spine, removing the pump, removing the intrathecal
catheter and anchor, and closing the incision sites, Respondent saw Patient A for

follow up care on September 6 and 8, 2022, for wound checks and staple removal.

46. _ Patient A testified at this hearing. Respondent was Patient A's pain
management doctor from 2018 until September 2022. He wanted the pain pump
removed for several reasons, including that respondent was "charging a lot for refills,”
and he was getting tired of all the medical trips. He had been using a pain pump for
years and was hoping to get away from the situation. Patient A also testified he is a

frequent user of methamphetamine, which he believes helps with his chronic pain.

47. _ Patient A testified that on the way home from respondent's office after
the September 8, 2022, office visit, he began to leak cerebral spial fluid. His shirt and
pants were wet when he got home. He went to the emergency room the next day,
September 9, but they were unable to help him. He left on his own that day and went
back to the emergency room several times between September 9 and 17. He testified
he had a tear to the protective layer of tissue that covers the spinal cord (dura) that

had to be repaired.

48. Respondent's office records show that, on September 13, 2022, Patient A
called respondent's clinic complaining that cerebrospinal fluid was leaking from the

spinal incision site. Respondent's office told Patient A to go to the emergency room.

49. — Patient A testified he has filed a civil lawsuit against respondent.

PATIENT B: SURGICAL PUMP REPLACEMENT; REPROGRAM OF IT PUMP AND
MEDICATION REFILL

50. Patient B testified at this hearing that she has been a patient of
respondent for over 17 years. On August 25, 2022, respondent reprogrammed Patient
B’s IT pump using telemetry, and performed a medication refill. Respondent met with
Patient B on September 23, 2022, for a pre-operative consult. On September 29, 2022,
respondent performed an IT pump replacement procedure that involved general

anesthesia, explanting the patient's IT pump, and implanting a new IT pump device.

51. On October 5, 2022, respondent performed telemetry and analysis of

Patient B's IT pump and programmed a medication rate increase.

52. Respondent performed telemetry and analysis of Patient B's IT pump and

refilled the pump's medication reservoir on October 7 and 14, and November 22, 2022

53. Patient B testified very emotionally that it was difficult for her to see
respondent at the hearing. She testified it breaks her heart that she trusted him with
her life. In November 2022 she went through drug withdrawals because respondent's
office had supply problems. She testified she “felt like a heroin addict." She felt
respondent had lied to her about getting her medication refilled. She testified her

pump is “off now” because she does not trust any doctor to fill

ParienT C: PUMP SURGICAL Pump ACCESS, ASPIRATION, TELEMETRY AND
ANALYSIS

54. On October 7, 2022, respondent performed a surgical procedure on
Patient C, in which he accessed the patient's IT pump side port and aspirated fluid

from the pump and catheter and performed telemetry and analysis of the pump

Respondent Refuses to Answer Probation Monitor’s Question About
Compliance with the IT Pump Practice Restriction in September 2022

55. On September 9, 2022, respondent met with his probation monitor, Ms.
Addis, at respondent's offices, for the fourth quarterly probation meeting, Respondent
called Ms. Addis as a witness. Ms. Addis retired from state service in May 2024 as an
Inspector IL. She testified that respondent was cooperative, transparent, and she
believed he was honest with her. Respondent submitted his required probation reports
timely and completed education requirements. He submitted his required controlled

substance logs each quarter. She also received his practice monitor reports.

56. At the September 9, 2022, probation meeting, respondent signed a
document acknowledging that he received a copy of the 2022 Board Remand Decision.
Respondent's attorney, Mr. Rifat, attended the meeting with him. Respondent “took
the Fifth” and refused to answer Ms, Addis's question when she asked him the last
time he did any treatment with IT pumps. Ms. Addis testified this was the only time she

recalled respondent refusing to give her information she requested.

57. Respondent testified in this case that he exercised his Fifth Amendment
privilege at that meeting on the advice of his attorney because at the time he was
under a federal indictment. He testified on direct examination the federal charges
against him were later dismissed. On cross examination, respondent admitted the
charges were not dismissed; he pled guilty to one misdemeanor federal charge of
adulteration of controlled substances in December 2023. The federal grand jury
indictment dated December 13, 2022, alleged conspiracy to manufacture and
distribute controlled substances, healthcare fraud, false Medicare claims, unlawful
manufacture of controlled substances, and causing the adulteration of a drug, against

respondent and one of his employees. The information about respondent's indictment
and guilty plea is discussed here to provide context for respondent's testimony at the
hearing that he exercised his Fifth Amendment right in his meeting with Ms, Addis. The
federal criminal conviction is not charged as a basis for discipline and is not

considered in this case for that purpose.

Finding: Respondent was Prohibited from IT Pump Treatment When
He Treated Patients A, B, and C.

58. _ Respondent treated Patients A, 8, and C, from August 2022, through the
end of November 2022. During that time, respondent was under two disciplinary
orders from the board: the 2022 Board Decision which was effective on January 21,
2022, and the 2022 Remand Decision, which became effective immediately when it was
issued on August 11, 2022.

59. Respondent, and his attorney, took the legal position in this case that the
2022 Board Decision and its IT pump practice prohibition were void as a matter of law
because the 2022 Board Decision referred to the timeframe of the 2020 Board
Decision that had been set aside by the Writ I Superior Court.

60. Respondent made various legal arguments in the Writ Il case challenging
the 2022 Board Decision. The Writ Il Superior Court did not accept these arguments
and they are not accepted in this case. The Superior Court clearly held that the 2022
Board Decision was a "stand-alone" decision and that respondent's arguments to the

contrary were “defective.” That is the correct decision based on the record in this case.

61. _ Respondent's IT therapy practice restriction was briefly lifted effective
October 19, 2021, when the board acknowledged that he had satisfied the clinical
competency assessment requirement in the 2020 Board Decision. There was a pending

2020 Accusation against respondent at that time raising serious concerns about
respondent's IT treatment. Three months later, on January 21, 2022, the 2022 Board
Decision became effective, and he was again prohibited from practicing IT pump
therapy. The 2022 Board Decision’s stand-alone IT pump practice prohibition was in
effect on August 25, 2022, when respondent began treating Patients A, B, and C; the IT
pump prohibition remained effective throughout his treatment of the three patients in

this case.

Did Respondent's Treatment of Patients A, B, and C Violate the IT
Therapy Practice Prohibition?

Petitioner's EXPERT WITNESS MARK STEVEN WALLACE, M.D. TESTIMONY

62. _ Petitioner called Mark Steven Wallace, M.D., as an expert witness. Dr.
Wallace is a Professor of Anesthesiology and Chief of the Division of Pain Medicine in
the Department of Anesthesiology at the University of California, San Diego. He has
extensive clinical and research experience in pain management and treatment of
patients with IT pumps and has been widely published on many subjects involving

pain management treatment modalities, including the use of IT pumps.

63. _ Petitioner asked Dr. Wallace to review the medical records and provide
his opinion whether the treatment of any patients was care or treatment involving the
use, management, or any surgical procedures related to IT pumps. Dr. Wallace
reviewed the medical records for Patients A, B, and C. He testified that respondent's
treatment of Patients A, B, and C constituted care or treatment with patients involving

the use, management, or surgical procedure related to IT pumps.

64. Performing an IT pump refill involves using a fluoroscope to locate the
reservoir access point on the pump, inserting a needle and using a syringe to fill the

medication into the pump reservoir. This is the use or management of IT pumps.
Performing a telemetry analysis of the pump likewise is a procedure involving the use
‘or management of an IT pump. The physician must access the pump data with a
telemetry unit, make clinical judgments about whether the pump's settings need to be

changed, then make any necessary changes.

65. Performing an aspiration of the pump and catheter requires locating a
side port on the pump using a fluoroscope, and then inserting a syringe needle into
the side port and drawing fluid from the pump and catheter to see if cerebrospinal
fluid can be drawn and sometimes using contrasting dye. This is a procedure involving

the use, management, or a surgical procedure related to IT pumps.

66. Dr. Wallace also testified that explanting an IT pump is a surgical
procedure related to IT pumps, The procedure involves general anesthesia, using a
fluoroscope to locate the pump and catheter, making incisions in two places to access
the pump and the catheter connection at the spinal cord, surgically removing the

pump, removing the catheter, and closing the incision sites.
RESPONDENT'S TESTIMONY

67. _ Respondent did not call an expert to give opinion testimony about
whether respondent's patient treatment constituted IT use, management, or surgical

procedures. He gave his own percipient testimony as a physician.

68. _ Respondent testified that he treated Patient A on September 1, 2022,
because the 2020 Board Decision had been set aside and he believed the 2022 Board
Decision was void as a matter of law. He also testified that removing an IT pump is
“not really pump treatment” because he was not dealing with any medication dosage

or rates or any decisions about the medications. He was “only removing a piece of

durable medical equipment.” Any qualified surgeon could remove the pump from a

patient; they do not have to be trained in IT pump management.

69. Respondent testified that refilling an IT pump is not IT pump treatment

because a nurse practitioner could perform the procedure.

70 Respondent also testified that aspirating Patient C’s catheter on October
7, 2022, was not pump management because all he did was use a 25-gauge needle to
access the side port on the pump and attempt to draw back fluid from the catheter.
The purpose was to diagnose if the catheter was kinked or occluded. No return of
cerebrospinal fluid means the catheter has a blockage. He testified this is not pump

management, it is a simple diagnostic test.

FINDING: RESPONDENT'S TREATMENT OF PATIENTS A, B, AND C VIOLATED
THE IT PUMP PRACTICE RESTRICTION

71. Dr. Wallace's expert testimony was persuasive that IT pump explant
surgery, IT pump telemetry and analysis, IT pump refills, and IT pump catheter
aspiration are all care or treatment involving the use, management, or surgical
procedures related to IT pumps. Dr. Wallace explained the procedures and detailed

how they are related to IT pump care or treatment.

72. _ Respondent's testimony that these procedures were not IT pump
treatment was not persuasive. Respondent's testimony minimized and oversimplified
the procedures and their important relationship to IT pump care or treatment. When
removing an IT pump, respondent was doing more than just removing a piece of
durable medical equipment. Although any surgeon could legally explant an IT pump,
when respondent performs the procedure on a patient with whom he has an existing

pain management relationship that included IT pump treatment, the explant is part of
F 23
that treatment. Similarly, the other procedures, refills, telemetry and analysis, catheter
aspiration, that respondent performed with Patients A, B, and C, were part of his IT

pump care and treatment as their pain management provider.
Respondent's Disclosures to Patients were False and Misleading

73. On February 25, 2022, Patient A signed a "SB 1448 Disclosure to
Patients,” which stated:

February 10, 2022

Dear Patient

I, David J. Smith, M.D., was disciplined by the California
Medical Board on August 25, 2020, and additionally on
December 22, 2021, the Medical Board issued another

disciplinary decision.

On January 24, 2022, the Superior Court of California in and
for the County of Los Angeles, set aside the Medical Board's
disciplinary order of August 25, 2020, concluding that the
Medical Board had violated my due process rights. Attached
is a copy of the Court's Order. I am advised by counsel that,
as a matter of law, this also sets aside the December 22,
2021 decision.

am awaiting entry of judgment in my favor in Superior

Court and further legal proceedings may be necessary. lam

advised that as a result of these legal proceedings, lam not

presently under discipline by the Medical Board and that
there are no practice restrictions on my license as a matter
of law. I nevertheless continue to work cooperatively with

the Board and its monitor.

For more information regarding the orders, including a
copy of the Medical Board's decisions and/or Accusations,

please contact the Medical Board of California.

74, Patient B signed the same disclosure on September 29, 2022. Patient C
signed the same disclosure on October 7, 2022.

75, At the time the patients signed the disclosure, respondent was subject to

the 2022 Board Decision’s practice restriction prohibiting him from IT pump treatment.

76. — The disclosure contained misleading information. The statement that the
Superior Court (Writ I) “set aside the Medical Board's disciplinary order of August 25,
2020, concluding that the Medical Board had violated my due process rights,” was
inaccurate. The Writ I Superior Court found that the AU erred in excluding
respondent's expert testimony, but that error only affected the discipline based on
respondent's treatment of three of the five patients in that case. The Writ I Superior
Court made it clear that its decision did not affect the discipline concerning the other
‘two patients. Respondent's disclosure inaccurately overstated the Superior Court's Writ

Iruling, giving patients the false impression respondent was completely exonerated in
the Writ I decision when he was not.

77. The disclosure also misled patients into believing that respondent's IT
treatment practice restriction had been lifted. The language “I am advised by counsel
that, as a matter of law, this also sets aside the December 22, 2021,” (2022 Board
Decision) had the effect of confusing respondent's disciplinary status. Patient A

testified that he would not have gone forward with his procedure with respondent on

September 1, 2022, if he had known respondent was still on probation. Patient B

testified that she believed respondent's probation was cleared and she was able to

start seeing him again for pump treatment, a false impression of respondent's status.

Respondent's cross examination of these patients did not undermine their credibility

‘on this issue.

78.

On January 24, 2022, the day the Writ I Superior Court's order granting

respondent's writ was entered, respondent's attorney, Mr. Rifat, wrote an email to

petitioner's attorney, Mr. McKenna. The email stated,

79.

With respect to the second disciplinary matter whose
decision became effective on Friday [the 2022 Board
Decision], we will need to discuss the impact of the Superior
Court's decision. In my view and despite my warning to the
judge, because he made his decision dependent upon the
original discipline [the 2020 Board Decision}, the latest MBC
‘order of discipline is de jure void. I'd prefer to conserve
resources and not take that up on writ as well. Let me know
if we can reach some sort of stipulation or alternative

resolution.

The attorneys did not reach an alternative resolution or stipulation about

the 2022 Board Decision being “de jure void." Respondent filed Writ II, the parties

litigated for 18 months, and the Writ Il Superior Court rejected as “defective”

tespondent's argument in its February 5, 2024, order denying respondent's writ.

80. _ In addition to being false and misleading as of February 10, 2022, the
date listed on the patient disclosure, the disclosure became more false and misleading
‘over time because it was not updated with current information about respondent's
disciplinary status The disclosure did not mention that the board reinstated
respondent's probation after remand on August 11, 2022, in the 2022 Board Remand
Decision. Patient A signed the disclosure on February 25, 2022, and was not presented
with an updated disclosure at the time of his surgical procedure on September 1, 2022.
Patients B and C signed the disclosures in September and October 2022, when the
disclosures failed to mention respondent's probation from the 2022 Board Remand

Decision.

81. Although neither the 2022 Board Decision nor the 2022 Board Remand
Decision specifically required respondent to make any disclosure about his
probationary status, since that term was removed from the probation conditions in the
2022 Board Remand Decision, if respondent elected to give a disclosure about his
probation status, it was his duty as a physician to ensure the disclosure was not false

and misleading.

82 Respondent's inaccurate, false, and misleading statements to patients
constituted unprofessional conduct that was substantially related to the qualifications,

functions, or duties of a physician.

Respondent's Additional Testimony and Compliance with Probation

Terms

83. According to probation monitor Ms Addis, respondent was compliant
and cooperative with the board's probation monitor. He submitted his required

reports and controlled substance logs, retained a practice monitor who also submitted

required reports, completed and passed the required training and education, including
the clinical competence evaluation. Respondent testified that he wanted to show the
board his good faith and willingness to cooperate and comply by keeping the practice

monitor and following other probation terms even after the Superior Court set aside
the 2020 Board Decision.

84, Respondent testified he made changes to his practice after the 2020
Board Decision based on his understanding of the criticisms in that case, He decreased
the opiate oral dosing of IT pump patients, changed the pump medications he used,
stopped using an Excel “flow sheet” for dosing records and used the telemetry system

directly to record dosing changes.

85, Respondent testified he sold his practice to another physician, Dr.
Thompson, in December 2021 to ensure continuity of care to the patients after the
probationary orders. Dr. Thompson was required to assume all practice employees, get
her own billing numbers, and her own electronic medical record system with her as the
attending physician. Respondent also testified that Dr. Thompson was unable to
continue under the obligations of their agreement. She left the practice and

respondent has “taken back" the practice.

86. — Respondent testified the transition to other practitioners for IT pump
care was difficult for some patients because he had long standing relationships with
them. He continued to provide non-pump related care for patients in order to keep
some continuity, The practice used nurse practitioners and other physicians to perform
IT pump treatments with his pump patients. He transferred all of his pump patients to
the other physicians, Each patient had a care plan in place, but respondent did not

direct their care. He expected that the physicians would use their own clinical

Judgment about treating the patients. Respondent did not “touch” controlled

substances or IT pump treatment until his right to do so was restored.

Respondent's Credibility

87. _ Respondent's testimony that he was confused by the complex procedural
history of his disciplinary cases and was misled by the board was not credible. His
answers to questions were evasive and self-serving. He misrepresented the status of
his federal criminal conviction. On one hand, he testified that he was trying to comply
with his probation, On the other hand, he chose to treat the 2022 Board Decision’s IT
pump practice prohibition as if it was void while he knew the board did not agree with

that position.
Evaluation of Disciplinary Remedy

88. The evidence showed that respondent acted on the legal position that
the 2022 Board Decision was “void as a matter of law’ without justification. He refused
to answer the question about IT pump practice in the meeting with Ms. Addis on
September 9, 2022, adopting the legal position that had not yet been resolved and
that the board opposed. Respondent violated the IT therapy practice restriction with
three patients on multiple occasions in September, October, and November 2022 in
direct violation of the 2022 Board Decision, He drafted and maintained a falsely
misleading patient disclosure document that induced patients to believe that he was
not under any disciplinary order when, in fact, he was under two different stand-alone
disciplinary probations, the 2022 Board Decision and the 2022 Board Remand
Decision. i

89. _ In this hearing, respondent took two inconsistent but equally untenable

positions. On one hand, he maintained that the 2022 Board Decision and its IT pump
practice restriction was clearly void as a matter of law. On the other hand, he claimed
that it was confusing and unclear, and he should not have his probation revoked for

being confused and not understanding the impact of the complex procedural history.

90. At no time did the board mislead respondent about the effect of the
2022 Board Decision. Respondent testified that Ms. Addis told him his IT practice
restriction was a “gray area.” Ms. Addis, called by respondent as a witness, did not
corroborate that testimony; she did not recall saying those words to respondent. At
the oral argument before the board on July 22, 2022, respondent testified to the board
that Ms. Addis made it clear that despite the Superior Court Writ I order, nothing
about his probation has changed.

91. Even if Ms. Addis had told respondent at one time that his IT pump
practice restriction was a “gray area,” respondent was not justified in relying on that
Purported statement in light of other facts: Mr. Rifat had proposed alternative
language for the board's public website disclosure which the board rejected; the board
retained the public website disclosure language that respondent was prohibited from
IT pump practice; Mr. Rifat proposed a stipulation to Mr. McKenna to avoid having to
litigate the issue of the "void" restriction in a writ proceeding, but Mr. McKenna
refused. The parties did litigate the "void" issue in the Writ Il proceeding. The Writ IT
Superior Court ultimately characterized respondent's “void as a matter of law" position
as defective and confirmed the 2022 Board Decision was a “stand-alone” disciplinary

order that was still in effect.

92. Respondent has not, at any time in this case, acknowledged his mistake
in treating patients based on the incorrect “void as a matter of law” position or in
giving a misleading disclosure to his patients. Respondent showed no remorse for his
conduct. There was no evidence of respondent's rehabilitation despite being on

probation since 2020. In his testimony, respondent showed no empathy for Patient A,
who suffered a cerebrospinal fluid leak and multiple emergency room visits, or Patient
8, who testified about her difficulty getting medication refills and her withdrawal

symptoms.

93. Respondent did not make an innocent mistake by misunderstanding the
complex procedural history of several different disciplinary cases and terms of his
probation. He did not reasonably rely on the advice of his attorney. He is a highly
educated professional who made his own decisions with full knowledge of the
potential consequences to his license. He made a conscious, bad faith choice to ignore
a legitimate order from the board and treat patients in violation of the board's
discipline. Despite having complied with other probation terms in many ways,
respondent has been cavalier and recalcitrant in complying with the one probation
condition that is most important to public protection - the restriction on his ability to

perform IT pump treatment.
Costs of Investigation and Enforcement

94, Petitioner submitted a declaration of Charles Shartle, associate
governmental program analyst, showing that the board incurred expert reviewer costs

for Dr. Wallace's evaluation and report totaling $787.50.

95. Petitioner submitted a declaration of Joseph A. McKenna Ill supporting
the Department of Justice's costs of enforcement. Attached to the declaration was a
detailed statement with description of the tasks undertaken, the amount of time billed
for the activity, and the billing rate for each professional through Apri 23, 2024, The
cost amount reflected in the detailed statement through April 23, 2024, was
$64,897.50.

96. Mr. McKenna’s declaration also included cost billing information updated
to include an estimate of additional time from April 23, 2024, up to the first day of
hearing. The estimate of 8 hours for Mr. McKenna and one hour for a Senior Legal
Analyst (costs of $1,965) did not provide detail about what the additional work would
entail, Mr. McKenna’s declaration was dated April 23, 2024. Although the hearing
extended beyond the April hearing dates originally scheduled, Mr. McKenna did not
update his pre-hearing estimate with information about the actual time spent or the
tasks performed. As such, petitioner's claim of $1,965 was speculative and

unsupported by sufficient detail and is not approved.

97. Respondent did not present any evidence suggesting that the claimed
costs were not reasonable. Respondent did not present any evidence concerning his

ability or inability to pay the claimed costs.

98. Based on the evidence in this case, and the complexity of the issues and
defenses raised, investigation costs of $787.50, and enforcement costs of $64,897.50,

are reasonable. Total costs of $65,685 are reasonable and are awarded.
LEGAL CONCLUSIONS

Legal Authority

1. licensee whose matter has been heard by an administrative law judge
may have his or her license revoked, suspended, placed on probation, or may have
other action taken in relation to discipline as part of an order of probation, as the

administrative law judge or board may deem proper. (Bus & Prof. Code § 2227.)

2. Petitioner bears the burden of proof, The standard of proof in a petition
to revoke probation is a preponderance of the evidence, even though clear and
convincing evidence is the standard to revoke a license. (Sandarg v. Dental Bd. of
California (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1441.)

3. Respondent contended that revoking his probation based on
unprofessional conduct is akin to an accusation to discipline the license and that,
therefore, the correct standard of proof to apply is clear and convincing evidence, as
would be required in an accusation. Petitioner argued it is sufficient in this matter to
prove respondent's unprofessional conduct by a preponderance of the evidence
because that is the standard for a petition to revoke probation and because his
original probation in the 2022 Board Decision was based, in part, on respondent's
unprofessional conduct. Respondent's argument is rejected. Preponderance of the
evidence is the correct standard of proof for this case, including for deciding the issue

of respondent's unprofessional conduct.

4. Even if the required standard of proof were clear and convincing
evidence, which it is not, the evidence in this case meets that higher standard. There is
no dispute that respondent gave the written disclosure to his patients; the evidence
was clear and convincing that respondent was on probation when he made the
disclosure. Respondent knowingly made the misleading disclosures to his patients — he
made a voluntary choice to accept the legal argument that the 2022 Board Decision
was “void as a matter of law” fully understanding that the legal issue was pending in
the Writ Il case and taking that position would mislead patients about his probation
status He had a duty as a physician to give patients all information relevant to their
treatment decision. He violated that duty. His reliance on the advice of his attorney

does not insulate him. Although only a preponderance of evidence is required, the

finding that respondent committed unprofessional conduct is supported by clear and

convincing evidence.

5. The board shall take action against a licensee who is charged with
unprofessional conduct, which is defined to include violating, directly or indirectly, any
provision of the Medical Practices Act, and the commission of any act involving
dishonesty or corruption that is substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or
duties of a physician. (Bus. & Prof, Code § 2234, subds. (a) and (e)). Knowingly making
or signing any certificate or other document directly or indirectly related to the
practice of medicine which falsely represents the existence or nonexistence of a state
of facts constitutes unprofessional conduct. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 2261.) Unprofessional
conduct is conduct that breaches the rules or ethical code of the medical profession or
conduct that is unbecoming to a member in good standing of the medical profession
and which demonstrates an unfitness to practice medicine. (Shea v. Board of Medical

Examiners (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 564, 575.)

6. A professional is not immune from license discipline simply because he
or she consulted an attorney, received, and relied on legal advice. (Davis v. Physician
Assistant Board (2021) 66 Cal.App.Sth 227, 237, Norman v, Department of Real Estate
(1993) Cal App.3d 768, 778)

7. A physician's duty is to disclose to the patient all material information to
enable the patient to make an informed decision regarding the proposed treatment.
Material information is information that the physician knows or should know would be
regarded as significant by a reasonable person in the patient's position when deciding
to accept or reject a recommended procedure. (Quintanilla v. Dunkelman (2005) 133
Cal.Appth 95, 115; Davis, supra, 66 Cal.App.Sth at 246.) The physician's failure to
disclose may properly be characterized as a breach of fiduciary duty or a lack of

informed consent. (Moore v. Regents of the University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d
120, 129.)

8. The purpose of license discipline is not to punish, but to protect the
public by eliminating practitioners who are dishonest, immoral, disreputable, or

incompetent. (Fahmy v. Medical Board of California (1995) 38 Cal App.4th 810, 817.)

9. Rehabilitation is a “state of mind,” and the law looks with favor upon
rewarding with the opportunity to serve, one who has achieved “reformation and
regeneration.” (Pacheco v. State Bar (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1041, 1058,) Fully acknowledging
the wrongfulness of past actions is an essential step towards rehabilitation. (Seide v.

Committee of Bar Examiners (1989) 49 Cal.3d 933, 940.)
Costs of Investigation and Enforcement

10. __Inany order issued in resolution of a disciplinary proceeding before any
board, upon the request of the entity bringing the proceeding, the administrative law
judge may direct a licensee found to have committed violations of the licensing act to
pay a sum not to exceed the reasonable cost of the investigation and enforcement of
the case. A certified copy of the actual costs, or a good faith estimate, signed by the
entity bringing the proceeding or its representative is prima facie evidence of
reasonable costs of investigation and prosecution of the case. (Bus. & Prof.

Code § 125.3.)

11. Section 125.3 limits recoverable costs to cases where a licensee has been
found to have committed a violation or violations of the licensing act. The Medical
Practices Act is contained in Division 2, Chapter 5 of the Business and Professions
Code, sections 2000 to 2528.3. Since respondent's probation was established based on
his violations of the Medical Practices Act, his violation of probationary terms is also a

violation of the licensing act. In addition, respondent's conduct in this case violated
Business and Professions Code section 2234 (unprofessional conduct), and section

2261 (knowingly making false statements)

12. In Zuckerman v. State Board of Chiropractic Examiners (2002) 29 Cal.4th
32, the court held that cost recovery administrative statutes do not violate due
process. The court identified factors to consider in evaluating cost recovery: (1)
whether the licensee used the hearing process to obtain dismissal or a reduction in the
severity of the discipline imposed; (2) whether the licensee had a “subjective good
faith” belief in the merits of his/her position; (3) whether the licensee raised a colorable
challenge to the proposed discipline; (4) whether the licensee had the financial ability
to make payments; and (5) whether the scope of the investigation was appropriate to

the alleged misconduct.

13. _ Respondent did not present any defense that resulted in dismissal or
reduction in the severity of the discipline. Respondent, or his attorney, may have had a
“subjective good faith belief" in the merits of his legal position, but that belief was not
justified. Respondent's “void as a matter of law” argument was adjudicated and
rejected by the Superior Court in Writ Il, and yet respondent pursued the same invalid
argument in this case as if it had never been addressed before. Respondent's efforts
resulted in increased costs for both sides of the case. Respondent did not offer any
evidence of his financial ability to pay the costs, Based on the seriousness of
respondent's conduct, the scope of the board's investigation and prosecution was
appropriate to the alleged misconduct. Costs of $65,685 are reasonable and are

approved.

Cause to Revoke Probation Was Established

14. Cause was established under, Business and Professions Code sections
2227 and 2234, to revoke respondent's probation based on his violation of the 2022
Board Decision’s probationary restriction prohibiting care or treatment involving the

Use, management, or surgical procedures related to IT pumps.

15. Cause was established, under Business and Professions Code sections
2227, 2234, and 2261, to revoke respondent's probation based on his unprofessional
conduct in falsely misrepresenting his disciplinary status to patients in his written
disclosures. Respondent's conduct constituted dishonesty or corruption. Respondent

falsely represented the existence of a state of facts concerning his disciplinary status.

Disciplinary Remedy

16. Having found a basis for revoking probation, the question becomes what
disciplinary remedy is appropriate under these circumstances, keeping in mind the

purpose of license discipline to protect the public but not punish respondent.

17. The board's Disciplinary Guidelines, 12th Edition, 2016, state that the
minimum penalty for a violation of probation is a 30-day suspension. The maximum
penalty is revocation. The guidelines also state, “the maximum penalty should be given
for repeated similar offenses or for probation violations revealing a cavalier or

recalcitrant attitude.”

18. At the time respondent treated Patients A, 8, and C in violation of his
probation, he had completed two years of a five-year probation. He complied with
‘many of the probation requirements: he had a practice monitor who inspected the ,

practice, randomly reviewed charts, and submitted required reports; he refrained from

prescribing controlled substances and IT therapy until after he completed the
physician competence assessment program, he submitted quarterly reports; he met
regularly with the board's probation monitor and, from her point of view, was.

cooperative, transparent, and honest; he completed additional education hours.

19. Respondent's two-year anniversary of his probation in the 2020 Board
Decision, as modified in the 2022 Board Remand Decision, was August 25, 2022. He
could have filed a petition for early termination or modification of probation at the

same time that he began violating his probation by treating Patients A, B, and C. (Bus.
& Prof. Code §§ 2221; 2307.)

20. Respondent took the position in this case that the board “confused” him
about his probation status and whether the IT pump treatment prohibition was still
effective. That is completely untrue. Although the situation was complicated because
of the many disciplinary orders and writs, it was not confusing. The board's position
that respondent remained subject to the IT treatment practice restriction was clear.
The board rejected respondent's attorney's attempt to remove the IT pump restriction
from the public website disclosure in August 2022. Respondent and the board were
involved in litigating whether the 2022 Board Decision was “void” in Writ Il, which
respondent's attorney filed in February 2022.

21. Why would a physician with a two-year history of discipline by the board,
who knew that the board considered the IT pump practice restriction to be ongoing,
choose to violate probation rather than comply with probation and petition the board
for early probation relief? Why does a physician who is actively litigating a legal issue
about his probation status begin acting as if that legal issue has already been
resolved? Respondent's testimony in this case was full of a lot of excuses, but no
explanation. His supposed reliance on his attorney's advice in the face of his long

disciplinary history is not credible and, even if believed, is not legally sufficient to

protect him from discipline.

22. Respondent had no satisfactory answer for the question why he chose
the path of probation violation. Webster's Dictionary Online defines “recalcitrant” as
obstinately defiant of authority or restraint. “Cavalier” is marked by or given to offhand
and often disdainful dismissal of important matters. The only conclusion one can reach
from the evidence is that respondent was recalcitrant and cavalier in his dealings with
the board and with his professional duty to disclose accurate information to his

patients when seeking their informed consent to treat them.

23. The evidence showed that respondent learned nothing as of 2022, from
two years on probation, or since 2022 to the present date. There was no evidence in
this case of his rehabilitation. If anything, license probation has made respondent
more cavalier and recalcitrant toward the rehabilitation that probation was designed

to foster.

24. — Given respondent's recalcitrant and cavalier attitude that was evident
throughout this case, a term of suspension or an extension of additional probation is
not likely to result in any further rehabilitation of respondent and will not adequately
protect the public. The only remedy that protects the public is revocation of
respondent's probation, removal of the probationary stay of his revocation, and

revoking his certificate.

ORDER

The probation granted to respondent David James Smith in Case No 800-2018-

042234, is revoked. The Stay of the disciplinary order is lifted. Respondent's Physician's
and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 66777 is revoked,

DATE: July 2, 2024 Alen he Alora

ALAN R. ALVORD
Administrative Law Judge

Office of Administrative Hearings

