9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

eo oN


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-7212-1

Against: FI LE D

GUIDO ALBERT TORRES, M.D.,
MAR 12 2025

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAS oeNE
By: —

Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel, and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Guido Albert Torres, M.D., (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1, Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a physician holding an active
license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 6294). Respondent was originally
licensed by the Board on July 1, 1991.

2. Patient A? was a forty-three (43) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

3. On January 2, 2020, Patient A was seen by Respondent’s Physician Assistant (PA),
for symptoms of “cramping all the time, menses lasting 8-9 days, and mild dysmenorrhea.” The
PA reviewed the case with Respondent, and Respondent discussed treatment options with
Patient A; however, this discussion is not documented.


' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Aury Nagy, M.D., Nick M. Spirtos, M.D.,
F.A.C.O.G., and Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel.

2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



4, On June 22, 2020, a preoperative examination of Patient A was performed by
Respondent.

5. On July 20, 2020, a laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy was scheduled,
however, the procedure was cancelled because the Respondent did not submit the necessary
paperwork to support insurance authorization for the procedure.

6. On February 23, 2021, Patient A was seen again at Respondent’s office and
reported worsening symptoms. Patient A stated that she was having heavy periods with clots,
pelvic pain, cramping, and dyspareunia. A Robotic-Assisted Laparoscopic Hysterectomy (RALH)
with possible bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was recommended.

7. On April 6, 2021, Patient A was seen by Respondent for a pre-operative visit.
Patient A complained of daily cramping, menses lasting nine (9) days, and she requested
sterilization. Informed consent was given for a RALH with possible bilateral salpingo-
oophorectomy for the diagnoses of pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, and dyspareunia.
Respondent documented that he explained the procedural risks, complications, and the failure rate
in detail; however, there is no mention of any discussion regarding more conservative approaches
and/or alternative treatments or procedures.

8. On April 23, 2021, the RALH was performed by Respondent at Henderson
Hospital. The procedure was uncomplicated until the paracervical tissue was taken down with the
vessel sealer to the level of the uterosacral ligaments. The operative report states, “[a]t this point,
we then realized that the monopolar scissors had been accidentally inserted into the peritoneum in
the mid abdomen and we did note that there was significant bleeding.”

9. Respondent converted the robotic surgical approach to an open laparotomy and
made a Pfannenstiel incision (a horizontal incision made in the lower abdomen) and completed the
hysterectomy. Respondent then attempted to locate the source of the bleeding, but he could not
localize the source and the Pfannenstiel incision was converted to a vertical midline incision.
Laceration of the aorta was noted, and two (2) general surgeons and a vascular surgeon were
consulted for repair of the aorta and to gain control of the large hemorrhage.



os
EBe
pga
bie
gs

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

kw N

ul

10. An 8-10 mm ragged and nonlinear laceration of the aorta was noted on the anterior
surface of the aorta superior to the bifurcation of the iliac vessels. Patient A went into
hemorrhagic shock, requiring a massive blood transfusion, and went into disseminated
intravascular coagulation (DIC). It is estimated that Patient A lost 4000 cubic centimeters of
blood from this event.

11. Patient A went into pulse less electrical activity (PEA) cardiac arrest, and
resuscitation with CPR and epinephrine was performed. Patient A received ten (10) units of
packed red blood cells, five (5) units of fresh frozen plasma, and two (2) units of platelets. She
was then transferred to Valley Hospital Medical Center (Valley Hospital) for further intensive care
management. Patient A remained hospitalized at Valley Hospital from April 23, 2021, to
May 3, 2021, and was discharged home with orders for home health care.

12. On April 26, 2021, the pathology report from the procedure was returned. It stated,
“[d]iagnosis: Uterus, cervix, fallopian tubes, and ovaries. Secretory endometrium, negative for
hyperplasia and malignancy, chronic cervicitis, squamous metaplasia and nabothian cyst.
Bilateral fallopian tubes with benign paratubal cysts. Right ovary with hemorrhagic corpus
luteum and cystic follicles. Left ovary with large hemorrhagic cyst with very attenuated/atrophic
lining.” The uterus weighed two hundred and twenty-six (226) grams and measured 11.0 cm x.
7.5cm x 5.0 cm. The “large” left hemorrhagic cyst measured 2.0 cm.

13. On May 6, 2021, Patient A was seen at Green Valley OB/GYN and the staples
from her incision were removed. The wound was reported to be intact.

14. On May 17, 2021, Patient A transferred care to a different OB/GYN for treatment
of wound dehiscence.

COUNTT
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

15. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

16. | NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating

disciplinary action against a licensee.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


17. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

18. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A by inserting the monopolar scissors into Patient A’s aorta
during a scheduled robotic assisted laparoscopic hysterectomy which resulted in Patient A
suffering life-threatening blood loss, transfer to another medical facility, severe post-surgical
complications and a longer hospital stay than would have been necessary if the surgery was
conducted and completed correctly.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IT
NRS 630.301(8) - Failure to Provide Procedures, Studies, Services, Referrals

20. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

21. | NRS 630.301(8) provides that the failure to offer appropriate procedures or studies,
to provided necessary services or to refer a patient to an appropriate provider, when the failure
occurs with intent of positively influencing the financial well-being of the practitioner are grounds
for discipline.

22. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
violated NRS 603.301(8) with regard to Patient A’s medical conditions when Respondent
scheduled and performed an unindicated procedure on Patient A, specifically a robotic assisted
laparoscopic hysterectomy. This is evinced by an April 26, 2021, pathology report that returned
findings that are considered normal and common and were not supportive of an indication for
surgery. Furthermore, Respondent failed to offer alternative, more conservative, treatment options
that could have addressed Patient A’s presenting symptoms. Thus, Respondent’s diagnosis and



Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


scheduling of the procedure occurred without a recognized medical purpose and with the intent of
positively influencing the financial well-being of Respondent and his practice.

23. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 1B aay of March, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

oy. Nalin T, Yr

ALEXANDER J. HINMAN
Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
28s.
COUNTY OF CLARK )

Nick M. Spirtos, M.D., F.A.C.O.G., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states
under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein;
that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the
course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations
and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 12th day of March, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

NICK M. SPIRTOS; NiD., F.A.C.O.G.
Chairman of the Investigative Committee

By:


