OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(C75) 688-2559

iW

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Pere

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-8736-1

Against: FILED

GARY ALAN MAYMAN, M. OCT 17 2025

Respondent. NEVADA STA

‘esponden TVADA STATE BOARD OF
byrne
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Alexander J Hinman, Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Gary Alan Mayman, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 6097). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on August 25, 1990.

2. Patient A? was a sixteen (16) year-old female at the time of the events at issue.

3. OnNovember 30, 2022, Patient A presented to Respondent for a pediatric cardiology
consultation (Consultation) at the Children’s Heart Center Nevada and underwent a physical
examination and a transthoracic echocardiogram.

Wy
Ww

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
‘Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Chowdhury H_ Ahsan, M.D., Ph D., FAC,
Ms Pamela J. Beal, and Irwin B. Simon, M D., FACS.

Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint,

lof 5S

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

13,

4. Respondent's November 30, 2022, Consultation note outlines the indication for
consultation as a history of “episodes of chest pain with significant exercise” and “clearance for flag
football.”

5. A description of Patient A’s episodes of chest pain in her own words describe the
sensation of chest pain that occurred with significant exertion, all events occurred while running,
and all episodes resolved with rest, There were no episodes of chest pain cited that occurred at rest.
Patient A described the episodes as “feeling like her throat is going to close” initially, and then “she
feels her body being light ‘like it is going to sleep.”” After that, the feeling was “pressure and sharp
pain in the left high parasternal area.”

6. Patient A also reported that the first episode she experienced occurred about one (1)
year prior to the Consultation, and the last episode occurred two (2) weeks prior to the Consultation.
Further negative history cited was, “no history of syncope, presyncope, pallor episodes, or decreased
exercise tolerance.”

7. During the physical examination portion of the Consultation, Respondent noted
blood pressures elevated for age on the upper limbs that improved to within normal limits with
repeat testing, Patient A’s vital signs were otherwise within normal limits. The cardiac exam was
documented to be within normal limits and Respondent described the inability to elicit chest pain
with deep palpation.

8. An electrocardiogram was also performed as part of the Consultation. The findings
were reported as normal with normal sinus arrhythmia, and Respondent noted there were no “ST-T.
wave changes.”

9. Further, an echocardiogram was also performed as part of the Consultation, which
consisted of fifty (50) images that Respondent reviewed Respondent noted that both right and left
arteries were seen by transthoracic echocardiogram; however, the right coronary artery was not
shown in two-dimensional (2D) or color Doppler echocardiographic imaging. Despite this,
Respondent noted “(t]he right and left coronary arteries are visualized proximally and are normal in
origin and size,” and with this information, he concluded that Patient A’s chest pain was “noncardiac

in origin,” and that “[t]he pain is most likely musculoskeletal in nature.” Respondent went on to

2of5

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(775) 688-2559

at


provide a statement supporting physical activity, which states, “[sJhe is cleared from a cardiac
standpoint to participate in any physical activity, including flag football.”

10. On January 5, 2023, Patient A was playing flag football and became unresponsive
after sitting at the side of the field She received bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
An automated external defibrillator was placed, and she was shocked three (3) times. Emergency
medical services described Patient A as being “alert and oriented” post-shock; however, she went
into ventricular fibrillation when she was placed on the gurney to be transported to the St. Rose
Dominican Hospital-Siena Campus Emergency Department.

11, On arrival at the emergency department, Patient A was noted to be awake but of|
altered mental status and was combative. Patient A was vomiting red fluid around this time as well.
Patient A complained of chest pain and then “went into full cardiac arrest.” Advanced Cardiac Life
Support was started, but resuscitation efforts were unsuccessful, and Patient A died at 6:15 p.m., in
the emergency department.

12. Anautopsy was completed that cited an anomalous origin of the right coronary artery
from the left sinus of Valsavla as the immediate cause of death of Patient A.

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

13. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

14. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

15. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.”

16. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A, by failing to adequately image the right coronary artery
and/or failed to recommend alternate imaging that would have properly visualized the right coronary

artery. Further, Respondent also failed to adequately image the left coronary artery by not using

3 ofS

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 668-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

WM
v7


color flow Doppler to confirm the left coronary ostium and course that were shown by 2D
echocardiography.

17, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1, That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2) within
twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early Case
Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been a
violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this case
as outlined in NRS 622.400,

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions
of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this 11" day of October, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

ALEXANDER J. HINMAN
Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: ahinman@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

4of5

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
'9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

a]
jf

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OFCLARK )

Chowdhury H. Ahsan, M.D., Ph D., FACC, having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and
states under penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein;
that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course
of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges
in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 17th day of October, 2025.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS,

By: Zoe
IURY H. AHSAN, M.D., PIPD., FACC
Chairman of the Investigative Commitfiee

SofS

