Reno, Nevada 89521
(075) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examinere

u
13,
15,


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 25-9991-1

Against: FILED

MITCHELL FADOUL KEAMY, M.D., 3
DEC 12 205

Respondent, NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEHL OEyNes
— By:

ETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Alexander J. Hinman, Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Mitchell Fadoul Keamy, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attorney, Heather S. Hall, Esq., of the law firm of MeBride Hall, hereby
enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!
A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in inactive status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. Hi

nse was originally issued on June 11, 1988 (License No. 5653).

2. On March 12, 2025, in Case No. 25-9991-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count 1); and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Count 11). By

" All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely tor final disposition of these matters and
any subsequent related admmnistrauve proceedmgs or civil Itigation involving the Board and Respondent. Any
adimission to malpractice herein is limited to its use in NRS 630.301(4) and isnot intended to replace or be interpreted
as professional negligence as used in civil ltigauon involving allegations under NRS Chapter 41A. Additionally,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal goverment regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof7



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examinees
19600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada #9521,
(078) 688-2559

reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS
630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint,

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of

administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board

concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

2of7

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,
(C75) 688.2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examinert

it

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein,

, the matters

with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions:
| Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2 Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing_and_Intelligent_Agreement
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to

have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and con

ions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently we

es all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.
4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes 1t has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for disciphne pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges

30f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.

[Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

(075) 688-2559


a


Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count 1, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4),
Malpractice.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixy days (60) days of the Board's
acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement in the amount of three thousand seven
hundred twenty-four dollars and eighty-eight cents ($3,724.88)

©. Respondent shall pay a fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000) within sixty
(60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement.

4. Respondent shall perform twelve (12) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME), related to the subject of anesthesia and best practices, within six (6) months of
the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. These twelve (12) hours of|
CME shall be in addition to the CME requirement regularly imposed upon Respondent as a
condition of licensure in the State of Nevada pursuant to NAC 630.125(1), and shall be approved
by the Board prior to their completion.

e. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

4o0f7

Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examinees
9600 Gateway Drive

wa ueon

"1
13,


8 Count II of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from the Board’s
corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6 Release from Liability In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630 364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. ‘The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC's counsel,

Wy

Sof7

jal Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada $9521,
(05) 685-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Stite Board of M

a1





8 Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9 Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and

effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering

this Complaint and from partic

in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

Il. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party 1s
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13, Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

‘expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada Nate Boon of Meal Ceamincrs

9400 Gatcway Drive

Reno, Nevads #9521,

(078) 688-2559

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Additionally, failure to pay any fines, costs. expenses or fees owed to the Board pursuant (o this
Agreement will resull in immediate suspension pending resolution of any payment delinquency,
unless within ten (10) calendar days of the payment due date, Respondent nouties the Board in
writing of the inability to comply with the payment terms and requests to appear belore the Board
al the nest regularly scheduled Board mecting to request a modification to the payment(s) ordered
in this Agreement. Further, Respondent's failure (o remit payment to the Board for monies agreed

to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

yes y or Nowrnber. 2025.

MCBRIDE HALL

vate this 14 tP day or Movember, 2025 DATED thi

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTI:E OF

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL,
EXAMINERS

DietoudiaT Wis By
ALEXANDER J. HINMAN

Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 792-5855

Vel: (775) 688-2559 Email: bshill@mebridehall.com
ail: ahinman@medboard.nv.zov Auiorney for Respondent

Auorney for the Investigative Comminee

8329 W. Sunset Road, Suite 260
Las Vegas, NV 89113

DATED this. day of , 2025.

By: male Gow ae >
MITCHELL FADOUL KE AK
Nevada License No. nae

Respondent

of?

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL.
[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(075) 688-2559

"1
13,
“4


RDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 25-9991-1)

was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 12th day of
December, 2025.
DATED this 12th day of December, 2025.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL,
EXAMINERS

py: _ Lee HA ocho,
NICK M. SPIRTOS, M.DZ, F.A.C.0.G.
Board President

