

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-5083-1
Complaint Against ) FI LE 'D)
HENRI WETSELAAR, M.D. ) JUN -? 2017
) NEVADA STATE Bo
Respondent. ) MED ARD OF
By: 7 EXAMINERS
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt,
M.D., Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fisher, M.D., by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy Executive Director for the Board, and Henri Wetselaar, M.D.
(Respondent), by and through his counsel, S. Brent Vogel, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about October 5, 2011, the IC of the Board filed a formal Complaint in
the above-referenced matter, charging Respondent with violations of Nevada’s Medical Practice Act
(Chapters 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Nevada Administrative Code), to wit: a
four-count violation of NRS 630.301(4) and a four-count violation of NRS 630.3062(1);and.

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands the
nature and significance of the Complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds
and concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice

Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but not limited to



the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of
witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and witnesses on his own behalf, the right to
written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to
Judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to waive
all of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the
Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the
right to a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he
agrees to settle and resolve this matter of the formal Complaint against him by way of, and in
accordance with, this Settlement Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly meeting,
duly noticed, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board approves
the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s IC.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and the charges brought
against him by the Board’s IC in said matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject
to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice
Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel named herein,

whom Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these



circumstances, and Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of said
counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights
arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the proceeding on the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with
this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC had a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or more
instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice
Act. All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other
use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding,
state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court proceeding.
Should the Board not approve this Agreement, Respondent reserves the right to fully defend
against the allegations in the Complaint at a formal hearing. Respondent fully reserves his rights
to defend against the allegations in the Complaint, should they be raised in any subsequent civil
suit to which the Board is not a party.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the
Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him,
finding that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act, to wit: that in treating the patients

referenced in the original Complaint filed by the IC, Respondent’s associated medical treatment



related to the underlying patients was deficient in multiple regards and, as a result, Respondent
committed two violations of NRS 630.301(4) and two violations of NRS 630.3062(1). For these
violations, Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded and reimburse the Board the reasonable costs
and expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the current amount of
$6,244.75, plus any additional costs that may be accrued subsequent in the disposition of this
matter. The aforementioned costs are to be paid to the Board within ninety (90) days of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board. A final accounting of the
additional costs will be provided to Respondent in the entry of the Board’s Order relating to the
matter. Lastly, Respondent’s controlled substances prescribing license with the Nevada State
Board of Pharmacy has lapsed. In this regard, Respondent agrees that he will not ever in the
future apply anew for a controlled substances prescribing license with the Nevada State Board of

Pharmacy.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to
the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the
panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent
covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte,
without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his counsel, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint, the allegations in the Complaint, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the

Complaint against Respondent.

7. Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available

Agenda of a regularly-scheduled and duly-noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly
understood that this Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the

recommendation of the IC for acceptance.





8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order consistent with the terms of paragraph 5
above.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the Complaint. The IC hereby
agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the Complaint, with the
understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.





11. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding

and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in
a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

12. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

13. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

14. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its Order

approving this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the
Board would then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against
Respondent in addition to that included herein for violation of an Order of the Board in
accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the
Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil

collection efforts.

Dated thie 2S ony 0 y, 2014. Dated this 24 day oy ol 2014.

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq. (S-Brent eed. Ew,
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Respoyd
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

. aa / Up
: Hef ie MIX, fips

Sted this Fay of
Av Z



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 2" day of June 2017, with the final total amount of

costs due of $6,244.75.

Michael CXischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

