

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
Ke KS

In the Matter of the License of ) Case Nos.: 12-10032-1 and

) 14-10032-1
MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D., ) FILED


Licensee. )

By:
ORDER MODIFYING PREVIOUSLY APPRGVED
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

Maryanne Phillips, M.D. (Dr. Phillips), License No. 7635, personally appeared in Las

Vegas, Nevada before the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board) at its regularly
scheduled meeting on December 1, 2017, requesting termination of the probationary terms on her
license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada as set forth in the Settlement Agreement, which
was approved by the Board on September 9, 2016. After considering the request and speaking
with Dr. Phillips, the Board enters the following order:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the probationary status attached to Dr. Phillips’ license
to practice medicine in the state of Nevada is hereby removed, and her license is restored to active
status with all remaining conditions and restrictions associated with the September 9, 2016
Settlement Agreement still in full force and effect. The terms of Paragraph 5(A) of the September
9, 2016 Settlement Agreement are incorporated herein by reference as conditions upon her license
for 36 months from September 9, 2016. The Settlement Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit
A.

Dated this 7" day of December 2017.
NEVADA/STATE BOARD @F MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Dhkhy Aickallorty

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

EXHIBIT A |

EXHIBIT A
LV194756

bo

ORIGINAL |

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

i i ad

In the Matter of Charges and Case Nos.: 12-10032-1 & 14-10032-{

Complaint Against FI LE D

MARY . PHILLIPS, M.D.,
ARYANNE D TLLIPS, M.D SEP 09 2016

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDIZAL EXAMINERS

By? =

Respondent.

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) and Maryanne D. Phillips, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
represented by John A. Hunt, Esq. of the law firm Morris Polich & Purdy, LLP, hercby enter into
this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following: |
A. Background

I, Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada since 1995 (License No.
7635).

2. On November 5, 2012, in Case No. 12-10032-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint - No. 12-10032-1) charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act.

Specifically, Complaint - No. 12-10032-1 alleges three counts. Count I alleges a violation of

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.

1 of I


NRS 630.301(3), disciplinary action taken by another state. Count II alleges a violation of
NRS 630.306(11), failure to report in writing, within 30 days, any disciplinary action taken against the
licensee by another state. Count II alleges a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(a), engaging in any conduct
that is intended to deceive.

3. For purposes of this Agreement, Respondent and the IC further stipulate and agree that
that the IC represented it was intending to amend Complaint - No. 12-10032-1to include additional
counts regarding allegations that Respondent failed to report to the Board that the Medical Board of
California had taken disciplinary action against Respondent and failed to report to the Board that the
Nevada State Board of Pharmacy (BOP) had taken disciplinary action against Respondent. The IC
also represented that it was going to amend Complaint - No. 12-10032-1to include additional counts
regarding the disciplinary action taken by The Medical Board of California against Respondent and
the disciplinary action taken by the BOP against Respondent. Accordingly, this Agreement addresses,
resolves, and takes into consideration any and all claims/counts the Board or IC may have brought
against Respondent relative to said matters, including but not necessarily limited to, any count alleging
a violation of NRS 630.301(3), disciplinary action taken by another state, any count alleging a
violation of NRS 630.306(11), failure to report in writing, within 30 days, any disciplinary action
taken against the licensee by another state, or any count alleging a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(a),
engaging in any conduct that is intended to deceive. Accordingly, Respondent and the IC agree that
any and all allegations or claims regarding Respondent allegedly failing to report to the Board that the
Medical Board of California and the BOP had taken disciplinary action against Respondent are hereby
waived and/or released by the IC and/or the Board. Again, for ease of reference, reference to
“Complaint — No. 12-10032-1” shall also include the matters addressed in this paragraph.

4. On April 22, 2014, in Case No. - 14-10032-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint — No. 14-10032-1) charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act.
Complaint - No. 14-10032-lalleges three counts. Count I alleges one violation of NRS 630.3062(1),
failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of a patient. Count II alleges one violation of NRS 630.301(4), malpractice as

defined by NAC 630.040. Count III alleges one violation of NRS 630.306(2)(b), engaging in any


Nn ON

co ms


conduct that the Board has determined is a violation of the standards of practice established by
regulation of the Board.

5. Respondent was properly served with a copy of Complaint - No. 12-10032-land
with a copy of Complaint — No. 14-10032-1, and has reviewed both Complaints, understands both
Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel concerning the nature
and significance of the Complaints.

6. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in Complaint - No. 12-10032-1and in Complaint —
No. 14-10032-1. Specifically, Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by
the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, and the Nevada
Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include
the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in Complaint - No. 12-10032-land in Complaint —
No. 14-10032-1, the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

7. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation, and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

8. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.


VAN
at

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein (i.e., the matters
with regards to Complaint - No. 12-10032-land Complaint — No. 14-10032-1), Respondent and
the IC hereby agree to the following terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to Complaint - No. 12-
10032-land Complaint - No. 14-10032-lhas been, a physician licensed to practice medicine in
Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing, and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that she may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at her own expense. Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel,
John A. Hunt, Esq. of the law firm Morris Polich & Purdy, LLP, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this matter
materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this Agreement,
that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent agrees that she
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into this Agreement after full consultation with and
upon the advice of her counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that may apply to
her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from Complaint - No. 12-10032-
land Complaint - No. 14-10032-1filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints,
adjudication of the allegations set forth in the Complaints (in addition, as more fully addressed
above, this also includes any anticipated amendments to Complaint 12-10032-1), and imposition
of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to settle and
resolve the allegations of Complaint - No. 12-10032-land Complaint - No. 14-10032-las set out

by this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial




review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The Board acknowledges Respondent
is not admitting that the Board’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit and
Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es), and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in Complaint -
No. 12-10032-land Complaint — No. 14-10032-1, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and
for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert
witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve Complaint - No. 12-10032-1 and

Complaint - No. 14-10032-lpending against Respondent without incurring any further costs or the
expense associated with a hearing, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order
finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical
Practice Act, to wit: one count of disciplinary action taken by another state, a violation of
NRS 630.301(3), as outlined in Count I of Complaint No. - 12-10032-1 and one count of
malpractice, a violation of NRS 630.301(4), as outlined in Count II of Complaint - No. 14-10032-
1. Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:
A. . Respondent agrees to allow her license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
to be placed on probation for a period of 36 months from the date of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement (probationary period). The following
terms and conditions shall apply during Respondent’s probationary period:
1. During the probationary period, Respondent shall not prescribe any Class Il
- IV medications. If Respondent obtains a medical license coupled with the
authority to prescribe Class II - IV medications in another jurisdiction, the Board
will not object to Respondent prescribing Class Il - IV medications in the

jurisdiction in which Respondent obtained a medical license coupled with the

5o0f5


authority to prescribe Class If — IV medications. However, if Respondent
prescribes any Class II - IV medications in another jurisdiction to any patient from
Nevada, the IC shall be authorized to immediately summarily suspend
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada.

2. During the probationary period, Respondent shall not administer drugs to
patients except those that are necessary to perform her duties as an anesthesiologist.
Accordingly, Respondent shall be able to administer drugs to patients to perform
her duties as an anesthesiologist. The only drugs Respondent shall be able to
administer to patients to perform her duties as an anesthesiologist are outlined in
Exhibit “1.” The IC shall monitor Respondent’s administration of said drugs
through reasonable random audits of her profile with the Nevada State Board of
Pharmacy’s Prescription Monitoring Program and/or random audits of her patient
medical charts. If Respondent administers any drugs outlined in Exhibit “1” to
patients, Respondent shall be able to provide documentary proof upon request from
a Board investigator that said drugs were administered solely to perform her duties
as an anesthesiologist.

3. During the probationary period, Respondent agrees the Board shall have
unfettered access to Respondent’s medical records and agrees they may be
inspected randomly and without prior notice by investigators of the Board during
the probationary period, to ensure that Respondent’s subsequent practice and
record-keeping protocols are consistent with Nevada statutes and regulations.

4, During the probationary period, Respondent will be responsible for the
costs involved in the ongoing administrative oversight relative to the probationary
period and shall reimburse the Board within 30 days of a written request for
reimbursement of the same.

5. During the probationary period, Respondent shall not engage, in any

manner, in the practice of pain management.



Hl
HI]

B.

6. During the probationary period, Respondent shall not be employed in any
manner with a pain management clinic/practice.

7. During the probationary period, Respondent shall not have any business
interest/ownership in any pain management clinic/practice.

8. During the probationary period, Respondent shall not work at any location
where pain management is practiced.

9, During the probationary period, Respondent shall not supervise any
physician assistants.

10. During the probationary period, Respondent shall provide the Board with
the physical address of each location of employment. If an address of employment
changes, Respondent shall notify the Board in writing of the new physical address
within five business days of the change.

11. During the probationary period, Respondent shall comply with all laws
related to the practice of allopathic medicine, whether state or federal, whether
statutory or regulatory, and whether contained in NRS and NAC chapters 629, 630,
453, 454, 585 and 639.

12. Respondent shall allow Board investigators to enter each location where
Respondent is practicing medicine at any time during each practice location’s
normal operating hours, including any room or area therein, to inspect the practice
and review any or all of her patient and practice records.

Respondent may petition the Board before the probationary period has expired to

request that the terms of this Agreement be modified or that the probationary period be

terminated before the 36-month probationary period referenced above expires.

C.

With regards to Complaint - No. 12-10032-1, Respondent shall pay a fine of five

hundred and xx/100 dollars ($500.00) for Count I within 30 days of the Board’s

acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.





D. With regards to Complaint — No. 14-10032-1, Respondent shall pay a fine of five
hundred and xx/100 dollars ($500.00) for Count II within 30 days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

E. With regards to Counts II and II of Complaint - No. 12-10032-land Counts T and
Ill of Complaint No. - 14-0032-1, the same shall be dismissed.

F. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matters within 30 days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement (i.e., Complaint - No. 12-10032-1 and Complaint
—No. 14-10032-1), the current amounts being $4,567.42 for Complaint - No. 12-10032-1
and $4,360.36 for Complaint — No. 14-10032-1, not including any costs that may be
necessary to finalize this Agreement.

G. Respondent shall be issued a public letter of reprimand.

H. Respondent shall take six hours of continuing medical education (CME) related to
anesthesiology within 12 months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any
CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their completion.

I, This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the state of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and
agents are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2). Respondent agrees to release the state of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants, and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and

unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against



any or all of the persons, government agencies, or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of the cases referenced

herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of Complaint - No. 12-10032-land Complaint — No. 14-10032-1. In the course of
seeking Board acceptance, approval, and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves, and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve, and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void, and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
Complaint - No. 12-10032-1and Complaint - No. 14-10032-land from participating in disciplinary
proceedings against Respondent, including adjudication of the cases; and (2) Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this


WN

wn


Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agrees that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be either the Second Judicial District Court,
state of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved, and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses, or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.


Dated this Bday of Manet - , 2016. Dated this ae of 5:


Robert Kulro jJéhn. A. Hunt, ES
Attorney fo rvestigative Committee ( a “Attorney for Respondent

Unpexstgop AND ) AGREED:

MaRYANne D. PHILLIPS/M_D. , Respondent
Dated this ““__ day of MIE £16.



\o


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the git day of September 2016, with the final total
amount of costs due of $8,927.78.

Michael J. Gicher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

acetaminophen heparin nitroprusside 50 mg injection
ademosine heparin sodium norepinephrine

Adenosine 3 mg/ml 2 ml vial hetastach 6% 500 ml drip ocular lubricant

albuterol hydralazine ondansetron

albuterol hfa hydralazine hel opthalmic lubricant
alfentanil hydrocortisone 100mg/2mL peinephrine PFS

alfentany! hydrocortisone 250mg/2mL phenylephrine 100mcg/ImL
aminocaproic acid hydrocortisone pf phenylephrine 10mceg/ImL
amiodarone hydromorphone phenylephrine hel
atracurium iopamidol physostigmine

atropine ketamine promethazine hel

atropine sulfate ketorolac propofol 10mg/1mL

benzocaine/tetracaine topical ketorolac tromethamine propofol 200mg/20mL
bivalirudin labetalol 5 mg/ml 4ml syringe _| propofol/benzyl
bupivacaine 0.25% epi 1:200K lidocaine 1% epi 1:100,000 propranolol

buplvacaine

lidocaine 1% MPF

protamine 10mg/ImL

calcium chloride

lidocaine 1% pf

protamine 50mg/S5mL

calcium chloride 10%

lidocaine 2%

protamine sulfate

cefazolin lidocaine 2% 100mg/SmL rocuronium
cefazolin sodium lidocaine 2% 20 mg/ml 5ml sdv_|sodium bicarbonate
cefoxitin lidocaine 2% 5 ml jelly sodium chloride

dexamethasone 10mg/1mL

lidocaine 2% MPF

sodium chloride 10%

dexamethasone 4mg/ImL

lidocaine 2% topical

sterile water

dexamethasone na phosphate

lidocaine 5% topical

succinylcholine

dextrose lidocaine hel 2% succinylcholine chloride
dextrose 50% 50 ml syringe Ita kit 4% 4 ml top soln sufentanil

digoxin meperidine sufentanil citrate
diltiazem methpredinsolone sodium suce __| triamcinolone
diphenhydramine methyiprednisole sod succ vasopressin
diphenhydramine hcl methylprednisolone NA succ vecuronium

dobutamine metoclopramide verapamil

doxapram metoprolol water for injection, fliptop
edrophonium/atropine midazolam

ephedrine 50mg/ImL midazolam 2 mg/2mL

ephedrine 5mg/ImL midazolam 5mg/S5mL

ephedrine sulfate milrinone 20mg/100mL

epinephrine milrinone 20mg/20mL

epinephrine 10 ml bristojet milrinone lactate iv

esmolol morphine

esmolol hel

morphine 10mg/ImL

etomidate morphine PF 10mg/10mL
famotidine naloxone

fentanyl naloxone 0.4 mg/1 ml inj.
flumazenil neostigmine

furosemide neostigmine 10 mg/10 ml vial
gentamycin sulfate nitroglycerin

glycopyrrolate

nitroglycerin 2% ud

