Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
KEKE XR
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 17-12279-1
i

Complaint Against ET LE D
Daniel Thomas Nason, M.D.,

SEP 11 2017
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDJ@AL EXAMINER:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
Daniel Thomas Nason, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, represented by legal
counsel, Thomas Vallas, Esq., of Hoy, Chrissinger, Kimmel, and Vallas, hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada (License No. 8637).

2. On July 21, 2017, the IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint) alleging that
Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, this Complaint alleges: one (1) violation

of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2)/NAC 630.230(1)(c); one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(c);


' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)3YNRS 453.3810); one (1) violation of NRS
630.306(1)(pYNAC 630.230(1)(c); one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(a); and one (1) violation
NRS 630.301(6).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which
is contained in NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the
allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and
evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the
final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is
adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301

rat

Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

l. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at his own expense. Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel,
and wishes to resolve the matters addressed herein through counsel. Respondent agrees that if
representation by counsel in this matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement
and for the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the
material change. Respondent agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this
Agreement after consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel of his own choosing.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter upon the Board’s approval of this Agreement and entry of a final
order making this Agreement an order of the Board. This waiver includes the waiver of all rights
arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act,
the APA and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this matter,
including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the Complaint and
imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board as defined in this
Agreement. Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently agrees and understands that, upon

the Board’s approval of this Agreement and entry of a final order making this Agreement an order


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

S
aa
to
mad
@ co iP
Ba
aeB
£58
g4e
sm


OBO SN



of the Board, all allegations in the Complaint will be settled and resolved as set out by this
Agreement, and Respondent will not be entitled to a hearing or any further proceedings, including
any right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, or the risk
of an adverse decision against Respondent following a hearing, Respondent hereby agrees that the
Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act subject to the following terms and conditions:
A. Respondent admits to one (1) violation of the following:
1. Count 1 [NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2)/NAC 630.230(1)(c)], based on and limited

to the temporary mental stress precipitated by significant issues in his personal life on

January 30, 2017;
2. Count 2 [NRS 630.306(1)(c)];
3. Count 3 [NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3)/NRS 453.381(1)];
4. Count 5 [NRS 630.306(1)(a)], based on and limited to the temporary mental

stress precipitated by significant issues in his personal life on January 30, 2017; and
5. Count 6 [NRS 630.301(6)], to the extent that his temporary mental stress
referenced above caused other physicians, staff and patients of his practice group to be
disrupted on January 30, 2017.
B. The IC will dismiss Count 4 [NRS 630.306(1)(p)/NAC 630.230(1)(c)] with
prejudice.
C. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $2,270.64, not mcluding any

costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

4 of7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(778) 688-2559


D. Respondent shall take six (6) hours of continuing medical education (CME) related
to substance abuse (3 hours) and stress management (3 hours) within six (6) months from the date
of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours

of CME shall_be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon

Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board
prior to their completion.

E. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

F. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

G. Respondent shall continue his full compliance with both his Lifepath Recovery
LLC Professional Monitoring Program agreement (Program) and the Stipulation to Comply with
the Lifepath Program and Order, as executed on March 17, 2017, until further ordered by the
Board or IC or by mutual agreement between Respondent and the Board/IC.

6. Release From Liability. Respondent acknowledges and understands that

NRS 630.364(2)(a) provides immunity from civil liability to the State of Nevada, the Board, and
each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels,
hearing officers, consultants and agents for any decision or action taken in good faith in response
to information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Further, upon the Board’s approval of
this Agreement and entry of a final order making this Agreement an order of the Board,
Respondent agrees to release the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff,
counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants
and agents from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons,
government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of, or by reason of, this
investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced herein. Respondent
excepts from this waiver any action required to be taken to enforce this Agreement after approval.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Ss
ana
tt S
ma D
@ oo 12
Bass
a3o
awe
as
id
wy
om
wt


recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where the Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is required

to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such jurisdiction

and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this na? Es subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.
Dated this ue J day of hy Flimpog aa , 2017.

By: Aly /

Robert Kilroy. Eb
Attorney fo Investigative Committee

Dated is [SE day of Sepvember , 2017.

By: | Hi Ose T\/ ee
‘Thom Ilas, Esq.
Attorn r the Respond

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

I UtA—

Daniel | omas Nason, M.D., Respondent

Dated this | day of 220 bea looy— , 2017.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of September 2017, with the final

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Presleft
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

total amount of costs due of $2,270.64.

