OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

a a

Case No. 17-26547-1
In the Matter of Charges and al Le D>)

Complaint Against DEC - 4 2017

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

JORGE YSACC BURGOS, M.D., MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Respondent.

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through its General Counsel, Robert Kilroy, Esq., and Jorge Ysacc Burgos, M.D.
(Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, represented by Crane Pomerantz, Esq., of the law
firm of Sklar Williams PLLC, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on
the following:!
A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada since August 27, 2003
(License No. 10622).

2. On August 11, 2017, in Case No. 17-26547-1, the IC filed a First Amended Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with Medical Practice Act violations. Specifically, this Complaint

alleges: one (1) count of violating of NRS 630.301(9) (engaging in conduct that brings the medical

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


profession into disrepute); one (1) count of violating of NRS 630.301(11)(d) (conviction of a sexually
related crime); and one (1) count of violating of NRS 630.301(11)(g) (conviction of an offense
involving moral turpitude). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the
Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter and his
opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has certain
rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in NRS
Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel at his own expense in the preparation and presentation of his
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the
right to judicial review of the Board’s Order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.

Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at his own expense. Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel licensed
in the State of Nevada and wishes to resolve the matters addressed herein with such counsel.
Respondent agrees that if representation in this matter materially changes prior to entering into
this Agreement and for the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely
notified of the material change. Respondent agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently
enters into this Agreement after deciding to have a full consultation with and upon the advice of
legal counsel licensed in the State of Nevada.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this

Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

HI


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The Board acknowledges Respondent
is admitting that the Board’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit and Respondent
is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential subsequent litigation.
Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has evidence, witnesses, expert
witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the Complaint, but for the purposes of
resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence,
witnesses, expert witnesses and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that
is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly, the following terms
and conditions are hereby agreed upon:
A. Respondent admits to the following:
(1) One (1) count of violating NRS 630.301(9) (engaging in conduct that
brings the medical profession into disrepute);
(2) One (1) count of violating NRS 630.301(11)(d) (conviction of a sexually
related crime); and
(3) One (1) count of violating NRS 630.301(11)(g) (conviction of an offense
involving moral turpitude).
B. Respondent agrees to allow his license to practice medicine in the State of
Nevada to be suspended (Suspension) for FOUR (4) MONTHS (December 2017, January
thru March 2018) following the date of this Agreement’s acceptance, adoption and
approval by the Board, and Respondent will have his suspended license status lifted on
Monday, April 2, 2018, which is approximately four months following his Suspension
date.

HI

4of 8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


C. Respondent’s license shall be subject to a term of probation (Probationary
Period) for an indeterminate period of time and he may petition the Board to lift the
probationary condition placed upon his license after forty-eight (48) months from the date
of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The following terms
and conditions shall apply during Respondent’s Probationary Period, if and when
Respondent intends to practice medicine in Nevada during this Probationary Period:

(1) Respondent must be supervised at all times during any and all
interactions with all female patients, with a formal monitoring agreement with
approved and identified monitors, throughout the entire Probationary Period or
until further order of the Board.

(2) Respondent shall successfully complete all requirements as established
by the Eighth Judicial District Court and the Nevada Division of Parole and
Probation.

(3) Respondent agrees to abstain from the personal use or possession of
controlled substances and prescription drugs, unless such controlled substance or
prescription drug is lawfully prescribed to Respondent for a current bona fide illness or
condition by a licensed Practitioner. Respondent shall abstain from the use of any and all
other mood-altering substances for any other purpose than the purpose for which the
substance is intended. Respondent will no longer be allowed to prescribe medications to
himself.

(4) Respondent shall complete all terms and conditions of any criminal
sanctions incurred before or during the period of this Agreement, including probation or
parole, and if, or when, the Nevada Division of Parole and Probation terminates its
probationary period of Respondent, then Respondent can petition the Board for a
termination of the Board’s Probationary Period.

D. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within one hundred twenty (120) days of

the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


being [$1500.00], not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this
Agreement.

E. Respondent shall take six (6) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
related to family practice, boundary issues, and professionalism within the work place within
twelve (12) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME
requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the
State of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their completion.

F, This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

G. Respondent shall be issued a Public Letter of Reprimand.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

adjudicating members of the Board.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any

such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in a Nevada state district court, the parties consent
to such jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District

Court, County of Washoe, State of Nevada.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall

be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

7of8

OFFICE
OF THE
GENERAL

COUNSEL
Nevada State
Board of
Medical
Examiners
1105 Terminal
Way #301
Reno, Nevada
(775) 688-2559


-_

| Oe So 0


13. | Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada. pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this Dh of AP , 2017.
By: Me '<

Robert Kilroy,
ttomey for th

Dated t we y of

“Grane Pomerantz, Esq|
Attomey for the Respondent

mye AND AGREED:

Downy"

Jorge Yspcd' Burgos, Mo gpes ndent

Dated this 2] day of /avembgp, 2017.


1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 1“ day of December 2017, with the final

Dhulte Ackalirce A.

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D. President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

total amount of costs due of $1,500.00.

