OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

ie


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

wee
In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 17-30588-1
Complaint Against ) :
FILED
Hector Rodriguez, M.D., MAY 22 2017 :
Respondent. ) : MEMEBSCAL EXAMINERS
) aaa
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, by
and through Jasmine Mehta, Esq., Deputy General Counsel, hereby issues this formal complaint
against Hector Rodriguez, M.D. (hereinafter referred to as Dr. Rodriguez or Respondent), a
licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a reasonable basis to
believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630
and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act).

The IC alleges the following facts:

1, Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 11629). Respondent
was issued his license from the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on September 10,
2005, pursuant to the provisions of NRS Chapter 630.

2. On December 12, 2014, the California Medical Board filed an Accusation against
Respondent. The Accusation alleged that on August 28, 2014, the Nevada State Board of Medical

Examiners had issued an Order of Suspension regarding Respondent’s license to practice

| The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time the filing of this
Complaint was approved, was composed of Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Mr. M. Neil

Duxbury.
i

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

1105 Terminal Way #301




medicine in Nevada based on his disruptive behavior and refusal to submit to drug testing at
Summerlin Hospital in Las Vegas, which resulted in the suspension of his privileges at that
facility on or about May 28, 2014. It was alleged that on or about May 29, 2014, his privileges at
three additional facilities were summarily suspended. It was further alleged that on or about
August 20, 2014, Respondent failed to appear at a Fair Hearing on the hospital suspensions.

3, On August 28, 2015, the California Medical Board filed a First Amended
Accusation against Respondent. The First Amended Accusation stated that the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners issued an Order on or about November 24, 2014 extending
Respondent’s summary suspension until he completed certain terms and conditions, and that the
summary suspension was lifted on or about August 13, 2015. The First Amended Accusation
added a cause of action against Respondent for failing to disclose to a California hospital on his
application for medical privileges that his privileges to practice at four Valley Health System
hospitals had been summarily suspended on May 28 and 29, 2014 as a result of his disruptive
behavior and refusal to submit to drug testing. It was further alleged that Respondent answered
“no” to the question of whether any action had ever been initiated or taken to deny, limit, suspend,
or revoke his license to practice medicine in any state.

4, On December 30, 2015, following a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge,
the California Medical Board entered a Decision against Respondent. The Decision revoked
Respondent’s California medical license. The revocation was stayed, however, and Respondent
was placed on probation, pending the fulfillment of certain requirements by Respondent, including
a psychiatric evaluation, continued psychotherapy treatment, continuing medical education
requirements, enrollment in a professionalism program, provision of notice of the Decision and
Accusation to the Chief of Staff at every hospital where Respondent had privileges and facility
where he practiced medicine, a prohibition on the supervision of physician assistants, and
quarterly reports to the California Medical Board regarding his compliance with the probation
terms.

5, On or about June 29, 2015, Respondent submitted his application to renew his

Nevada medical license.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



6. At the time he submitted his renewal application, the California Medical Board had
already filed an Accusation against Respondent on December 12, 2014, which was later amended
on August 28, 2015.

7. Respondent did not timely report to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
the December 30, 2015 Decision by the California Medical Board in which Respondent was
placed on probation.

8. Respondent did not disclose on his 2015 renewal application that the California
Medical Board had filed an Accusation against him.

Count I
(NRS 630.301(3))

9. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

10. NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including the revocation,
suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type of medicine, taken by
another state, is grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

11. On December 30, 2015, the California Medical Board issued a Decision, effective
on January 29, 2016, which revoked Respondent’s California medical license, stayed the
revocation, placed Respondent on probation for five years, and required Respondent to fulfill
certain criteria during the period of probation. The California Medical Board concluded that
Respondent failed to disclose on his California hospital privileges application that his privileges at
four Valley Health System hospitals were summarily suspended on May 28 and 29, 2014; that he
had failed to disclose Nevada’s disciplinary action against him; and that his testimony in the case
before the California Medical Board “was evasive and lacking in candor.” Proposed Decision at
13, 9 11. (Exhibit A)

12. The California Medical Board’s December 30, 2015 Decision was a disciplinary
action taken by another state.

13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

Go

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL





Count I
(NRS 630.306(1)(k))

14. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

15. NRS 630.306(1)(k) provides that failure by a licensee or applicant to report in
writing, within 30 days, any disciplinary action taken against the licensee or applicant by another
state, the Federal Government or a foreign country, including, without limitation, the revocation,
suspension or surrender of a license to practice medicine in another jurisdiction, is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action.

16. Respondent was disciplined by the California Medical Board as described above.

17. Respondent failed to timely report the disciplinary action taken by the California
Medical Board.

18. Accordingly, Respondent is in violation of NRS 630.306(1)(k).

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

Count I
(NRS 630.304(1))

20. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

21. NRS 630.304(1) provides that obtaining, maintaining or renewing or attempting to
obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or
by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement is grounds for initiating disciplinary
action.

22. Respondent answered “no” to the license renewal application question asking
whether he had been asked to respond to an investigation, notified he was under an investigation,
investigated, charged with, or convicted of any violation of a statute, rule or regulation governing

his practice as a physician by any medical licensing board on his license renewal application dated

June 29, 2015.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

S
ive
a
Bad
= 2 oe
a &
aoe
BAG
gSoE
m &
am
Sol
Sa]

bo



23. The California Medical Board had filed an Accusation against Respondent on |
December 12, 2014, and such Accusation remained pending during Respondent’s submission of
his Nevada license renewal application.

24, Accordingly, Respondent’s answer on the license renewal application was false.

25. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions to
impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act
committed by Respondent;

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises,

DATED this 22 day of May, 2017.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE DA STATE BOARTYOF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Robert Kilroy, Esq.
General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative Committee
Jasmine K. Mehta, Esq.

Deputy General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative

Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE _ ) -

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in

the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this22 day of POA, 2017.

lbént [orobuiek

WayndHardwick, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 14" day of June 2017; I served a file copy of COMPLAINT w/exhibit and Fingerprint

information, via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to the following:

Hector Rodriguez, Esq.
1059 S. Sherbourne Dr. Apt. 402
Los Angeles, CA 90035-2187

Dated this 14 day of June, 2017.

Ua Duh.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT
A
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation )
Against: )

Hector Fernando Rodriguez, M.D. } Case No. 800-2014-008536
Physician's and Surgeon's »)
Certificate Ne. A 92346 )
Respondent )

DECISION

The attached Proposed Decision is hereby amended, pursuant to Government
Code section 11517(c)(2)(c) to correct technical or minor changes that do not affect the
factual or legal basis of the proposed decision. The proposed decision is amended as

follows:

1, Page 3, Paragraph No. 8, 6" line, “at imminent risk and that a summary suspension of Dr. Rodriguez
license to practice medicine” is repeated twice within the quote.

2, Page 13, third paragraph, 8" line, “Phases I and I” should be “Phases I and II.”
3. Page 14, 3% line of the Order, the word “years” Is missing after “five.”

The attached Proposed Decision is hereby adopted as the Decision and Order of
the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on January 29, 2016.

ITIS SO ORDERED: December 30, 2015,

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

(fA finn,

Howard Krauss, Chair
Panel B

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:

HECTOR FERNANDO RODRIGUEZ, Case No. 800-2014-008536

M.D.
OAH No. 2015070039

Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No.
A92346

Respondent.

PROPOSED DECISION

Administrative Law Judge Vallera J. Johnson, State of California, Office of
Administrative Hearings, heard this matter in Oakland, California on November 5, 2015.

Emily L. Brinkman, Deputy Attorney General, represented complainant Kimberly
Kirchmeyer, the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California, Department of
Consumer Affairs.

Liba Agwara, Attorney at Law, represented respondent Hector Fernando Rodriguez,
M.D.

The matter was submitted on November 5, 2015.

FACTUAL FINDINGS \
License History

1. On July 29, 2005, the Medical Board of California issued Physician’s and
Surgeon's Certificate No. A92346 to Hector Fernando Rodriguez, M.D. At all times relevant
herein, said certificate was in full force and effect and will expire on December 31, 2016,
unless renewed or revoked.

2. On September 10, 2005, the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners granted
respondent a medical license on condition that he participated in a drug and alcohol diversion
program. Respondent participated in this program for two years. With the exception of self-
report by respondent, no evidence was offered to establish the reason for this condition. In
addition, no evidence was offered to establish whether respondent complied with this
condition. As he maintained this license until order of summary suspension by the Nevada
Board of Medical Examiners in 2014, presumably he complied with this condition.

Respondent's Background, Education & Experience

3. Respondent grew up in Los Angeles and completed his undergraduate
education at the University of California San Diego. Thereafter he applied for medical
school in the United States. After being placed on the “wait list” for medical schools, he
completed his medical education at Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara. He completed
the Fifth Pathway Program at New York Medical College, then an internship in general
surgery at Catholic Medical Center - Queens Program of New York Medical College, and
finally a residency in anesthesia at State University of New York — Brooklyn.

After he completed his residency, respondent returned to the west coast and took a
position at a level I trauma center in Las Vegas. Since he did not become board certified in
anesthesiology within five years, respondent returned to California. He worked in
Bakersfield, Norwalk and Corona as an anesthesiologist. Thereafter, he returned to Las
Vegas. After an incident that involved patient death and because of his disruptive behavior
and refusal to take a drug test, his employer ordered him to complete the University of
California Physician Assessment and Clinical Education Program (PACE Program). His
employer reported the foregoing to the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners. Thereafter the
Nevada Board of Medical Examiners summarily suspended his license to practice medicine.
Thereafter, respondent returned to California, worked at Hemet Valley Medical Center
(HVMC). At no time did respondent disclose that his license to practice medicine in Nevada
had been suspended. During the background check, this fact came to light, and the job offer

was put on hold.

Currently respondent works three days a week at a surgery cenler, supporting two
plastic surgeons, in California,

First Amended Accusation

4. Kimberly Kirchmeyer filed Accusation and First Amended Accusation, Case
No. 800-2014-008536, in her official capacity as the Executive Director of the Medical
Board of California.

Discipline, Restriction, or Limitation Imposed by Another State (Count I)

5. On May 28, 2014, respondent’s medical staff membership and clinical
privileges were summarily suspended at Summerlin Hospital (a Valley Health System
hospital)’ in Las Vegas, Nevada, when his behavior became disruptive, and he refused to
submit to drug testing.

6. On May 29, 2014, respandent’s privileges at Desert Springs Hospital, Spring
Valley Hospital and Valley Hospital (all Valley Health System hospitals) were summarily
suspended based on concerns about respondent’s disruptive behavior and his refusal to
submit to drug testing.

7. On August 20, 2014, Valley Health Systems held a single Fair Hearing
regarding the above-outlined suspensions. Respondent did not appear at the hearing.

8. On August 28, 2014, effective October 7, 2014, the Nevada Board of Medical
Examiners issued an Order of Summary Suspension (Nevada Order) regarding respondent’s
license to practice medicine. In the order the investigative committee (IC) of the Nevada
Board of Medical Examiners determined: “that the health, safety and welfare of the public is
at imminent risk and that a summary suspension of Dr. Rodriguez license to practice
medicine is at imminent risk and that a summary suspension of Dr. Rodriguez license to
practice medicine in the state of Nevada is necessary to remove the risk of imminent harm to
the health, safety and welfare of the public.”

9. On November 24, 2014, the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners issued an
order extending respondent’s summary suspension until he complied with various concerns
and conditions that included the following.

e Within one (1) year from the date of this Order, Dr. Rodriguez shall
undergo both Phase I and Phase II of the physician assessment at the U.C.
San Diego Physician Assessment and Clinical Education Program (PACE
Program). This assessment shal] include a complete health history,
physical examination, and competence and fitness to safely practice
anesthesia.

* Within five (5) days of Dr. Rodriguez’s or Dr. Rodriguez’s representative’s
receipt of any final or draft report and/or recommendations from the PACE
Program, Dr. Rodriguez shall provide the IC? with an un-redacted copy of
any and all such report and/or recommendations.

® Dr. Rodriguez shall timely and in good faith comply with any and all
recommendations of the PACE Program and shall provide the IC with such

' Respondent explained that the Valley Health System hospitals in Las Vegas include
four hospitals, to wit: Desert Springs Hospital, Valley Hospital, Spring Mountain Hospital
and Summerlin Hospital.

? Investigative Committee
Nea
ww

evidence as the IC shall, in its reasonable discretion, require from an
independent third party, verifying Dr. Rodriguez’s compliance with the
PACE Program recommendations, if any.

Within six (6) months from the date of this Order, Dr. Rodriguez shall
undergo an alcohol, behavioral and drug assessment at a nationally
recognized alcohal, behavioral and drug center that specializes in
assessments of physicians and is sanctioned by the Federation of State
Medical Boards (FSMB) or otherwise approved by the IC and/or Board.

Within five (5) days of Dr, Rodriguez’s or Dr. Rodriguez’s representative’s
receipt of any final or draft report and/or recommendations from the
FSMB-sanctioned or 1C- and/or Board-approved nationally recognized
alcohol, behavioral and drug center that specializes in assessments of
physicians, Dr. Rodriguez shall provide the IC with an un-redacted copy of
any and all such report and/or recommendations.

Dr. Rodriguez shall timely and in good faith comply with any and all

recommendations of the FSMB-sanctioned or [C- and/or Board-approved
nationally recognized alcohol, behavioral and drug center that specializes
in assessments of physicians and shall provide the IC with such evidence

as the IC shall, in its reasonable discretion, require from an independent
third party, verifying Dr. Rodriguez’s compliance with the
recommendations, if any, of the FSMB-sanctioned or 1C- and/or Board-
approved nationally recognized alcohol, behavioral and drug center that
specializes in assessments of physicians.

The Nevada Order further provided that respondent shall pay all costs associated with the
requirements of the order and that he will execute all releases necessary to provide the IC
and/or Nevada Board of Medical Examiners with the mandated information. Finally, the

Order stated:

Upon verification of Dr. Rodriguez’s compliance with the
covenants, terms and conditions outlined above, the IC shall
timely and in good faith report to the Board Dr. Rodriguez's
satisfactory performance and shall recommend that Dr.
Rodriguez's license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
be restored to the appropriate licensure status subject to such
ongoing monitoring of Dr. Rodriguez’s competence and
comportment as the Board shall deem appropriate under the
totality of circumstances in order to promote and protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
10. | Respondent’s conduct and the action of the Nevada Board of Medical
Examiners constitute unprofessional conduct.

Dishonesty/False Representation (Count 2)

11. Respondent left Las Vegas to work at Hemet Valley Medical Center (HVMC)
because he lost his privileges at Valley Health System hospitals in Las Vegas.

12. On June 6, 2014, respondent applied for medical privileges at Physician’s for
Health HVMC.

e Part of the application to HVMC required respondent to list all hospitals
where he currently had medical privileges. Respondent did not list any of
the Valley Health System Hospital facilities in Las Vegas.

e On this application, when asked if he had “ever been refused membership
on a hospital medical staff or withdrawn your application for membership
upon being informed that it would not be acted upon favorably,”
respondent answered: “Yes.”

e On this application, when asked if he had “ever voluntarily/involuntarily
terminated your medical staff membership at any hospital or other
healthcare setting,” respondent answered: “Yes,”

* On this application, when asked if his “request for clinical privileges ever
been denied, granted with limitations, or withdrawn upon being informed
that it would not be acted upon favorably,” respondent answered: “Yes.”

e Qn this application, when asked if his “privileges at any hospital or other
healthcare setting [have] ever been suspended, diminished, revoked or not
renewed for any reason,” respondent answered: “Yes.”

® On this application, when asked “whether any such hospital actions were
pending against him,” respondent answered: “No.”

¢ On this application, when asked if he had “ever voluntarily/involuntarily
limited, reduced or withdrawn clinica! privileges at any hospital or other
healthcare setting,” respondent answered: “Yes.”

13. For the “Yes” answers, respondent provided a written explanation, to wit:
I have been declined membership on hospitals’ staff, and [sic]

forced to resign my privileges from hospitals because I am not
Board Certified by the American Board of Anesthesiology due

ay
to the fact that Iam not Board Certified after 5 years of finishing
residency. | am, however, Board Eligible/In the System
currently with the ABA and am sitting for my written exam July
29, 2014.

I cannot stress enough that my 8 plus years of experience
ranging from Level One trauma, to high risk labor and delivery,
to pediatrics, spines, neuro, ambulatory care, ASA V patient
status should be valued more than my misunderstanding of
approaching this exam. Please note that ] do have a perfectly
clean malpractice history even though I have yet to figure out
this written exarn.

14. In his application, respondent did not disclose that his privileges to practice at
four Valley Health System hospitals were summarily suspended on May 28 and May 29,
2014, as a result of concern about his disruptive behavior and refusal to submit to drug
testing.

15. On his application, when asked if any action had ever “been initiated or taken
to deny, limit, suspend or revoke” his practice of medicine in any state, respondent answered:
“No.”

16. On April 29, 2015, an investigator with the Health Quality Investigation Unit
on behalf of the Medica! Board at the San Bernardino District Office conducted an interview.
In addition to the investigator and respondent, present was a deputy attorney general
representing complainant. During this interview, respondent admitted that when he was first
granted a license by the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners he was required to undergo
drug and alcohol testing for the first three years of licensure in Nevada. This amounts to a
restriction on his license to practice medicine.’

17, During this interview respondent admitted that he knew Summerlin Hospital
was conducting a Medical Executive Committee Review of a case involving a patient death
and his disruptive behavior. He stated that he left Las Vegas to work at HVMC because he
lost his privileges at the Valley Health System hospitals.

18. On October 22, 2014, HVMC suspended respondent’s privileges when it
learned of the actions taken by the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners and reported this to”
the Medical Board.

3 The Nevada Board of Medical Examiners originally issued respondent a license on
September 10, 2005; however this license was contingent on his completion of a drug and
alcohol diversion program over the course of three years. During the interview by the
investigator on behalf of the medical board, respondent stated three years. During the
hearing respondent testified that he spent two years in the program. No documentary
evidence was offered to establish whether it was two years or three years.
19. | Respondent was dishonest on his application for medical privileges at HVMC

Response to Charges

20. Respondent was questioned about the reason that he was placed in the Nevada
Board of Medical Examiners’ diversion program. Respondent’s answer was inconsistent and
evasive,

During the PACE Program behavioral evaluation, when asked why the Nevada Board
of Medical Examiners decided to send him to the diversion program, respondent stated that
Nevada Board of Medical Examiners discovered the “wet and reckless” on his record, which
he had not reported.

During the April 2015 interview by the investigator on behalf of the medical board,
respondent stated that he “was not sure” why he was placed in the Nevada Board of Medical
Examiners diversion program. He said that when he applied for his medical license in
Nevada, they [Nevada Board of Medical Examiners] saw a ticket that was a traffic violation
that was alcohol related (in 2004) so they felt he needed to be monitored for alcohol. Ue said
it was pled down to a misdemeanor traffic violation. He said that he did not know if they
were testing him for other drugs or not. He described the facts and circumstances underlying
the offense. He explained that he was pulled over after working all day on Thanksgiving
because the law enforcement officers thought that he had been drinking alcohol. Initially he
refused to take the field sobriety test but then agreed to do so. He stated that he failed the
test because jt was 20 degrees outside,

Respondent testified that he was placed in the diversion program because
anesthesiologists are “high risk;” presumably he meant that anesthesiologists were at “high
risk” for substance abuse. Further, he stated that he was “accused” of driving under the
influence. He admitted that he had two beers about three hours before driving; on the urine
test, he had a blood alcohol content level of 0.06 percent.

Regarding whether he was “arrested” for an alcohol related offense, respondent
testified that he believed the definition of “arrest” was that he had been booked, put in jail,
and convicted. As such, in his opinion, he had not been arrested.

21. Respondent addressed the charges in the First Amended Accusation.

° At the April 2015 interview with the investigator and during the hearing,
respondent explained his opinion of the facts and circumstances underlying
the incident that resulted in the referral to the PACE Program.

While respondent was employed by Valley Health System hospitals, an
insured homeless alcoholic patient with significant cirrhosis of the liver
came into the emergency room of Summerlin Hospital and required a
surgical consult. The patient expired in the post-anesthesia care unit
(PACU). Ile indicated that the surgeon involved in the case was “just out
of residency,” and the emergency room doctor who took the case “sat on
it.” In his opinion, he chose the right intervention, despite the patient’s
death. During the medical executive committee (MEC) meeting regarding
the patient death, respondent explained his version of the facts. Based on
peer review, the MEC determined that respondent should attend the PACE
program. In respondent’s opinion, he was “blamed” for the patient death;
he felt that he was wrongly accused and was the “scapegoat”.

Respondent got legal counsel who advised him not to take a “drug test”
unless the surgeon and emergency room doctor was tested also. Asa
result, respondent refused to take the drug test. Subsequently, respondent
agreed to be tested, and all results were negative.

Regarding the allegation of disruptive behavior, respondent testified that
there were several incidents with a medical staff administrator and other
incidents with an orthopedic surgeon. According to respondent, he was
written up for “apparently raising my voice at her [the staff
administrator].” So, respondent said that his employer thought that he
“needed an evaluation because of raising his voice.” Regarding his
confrontations with the orthopedic surgeon, respondent testified that he had
raised concerns with the surgeon about taking a patient out of the intensive
care unit too early.

Regarding the Fair Ilearing held by Valley Health System on August 20,
2014, respondent did not attend because he did not know about the
meeting, probably because of a miscommunication with his lawyer.

On his application for hospital privileges al HVMC, respondent testified
that he did not list the Valley Health System facilities because he did not
want them to get the wrong impression of him. He had practiced as an
anesthesiologist for 10 years. He felt that he was getting a “bad rap” as a
consequence of the incidents in Las Vegas. He did not want to give them
the impression that he was incompetent because he was not.

He was aware thai his application stated that the information that he
contained in the application was true to the best of his knowledge and that
it stated that any substantial omissions or misrepresentations could result in
denial, modification or revocation of his clinical privileges. However, he
never thought that HVMC would suspend his privileges because, in his
opinion, he was a valuable asset to the community.
° Despite the fact that his license was suspended in May 2014 and that he
submitted the application to I1VMC in June 2014, respondent testified that
he did not disclose the discipline of his license because his attorney was
handling the matter; he was “under the assumption” that the matter before
the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners was resolved, that the matter was
getting resolved. At no time did respondent inform ILVMC that his license
had been suspended.

e Respondent successfully completed the PACE Program. The PACE
Program issued an assessment report, dated April 22, 2015, that was issued
on May 6, 2015. The report includes recommendations including that he
participate in an Anger Management class, psychotherapy, a three-month
monitoring program with random toxicology screens. Respondent testified
that he complied with the recommendations of the PACE Program’s
assessment report. He provided documentary evidence to establish that he
completed the Anger Management class and commenced psychotherapy.

° On August 13, 2015, the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners lifted the
summary suspension of respondent’s license to practice medicine.

22. Respondent offered no testimonial or documentary evidence to establish that
he complied with the remaining terms and conditions in the Nevada Order.

23. Inthe PACE Program assessment report, the psychologist, who performed the
behavioral evaluation, summarized his evaluation of respondent as follows:

In summary, Dr. Rodriguez is an anesthesiologist who has becn
reported to the Medical Executive Committee of the hospitals in
which he practiced and to the Nevada Medical Board for
disruptive behavior and for his standards of practice. He also
has a record of having participated in a Diversion program but
denies having problems with alcohol. Based on self-report, Dr.
Rodriguez does not have a substance abuse problem. However,
a thorough substance abuse assessment requires extensive
collateral information. A definitive conclusion eannot be based
on self-report. Also, Dr. Rodriguez admits to disruptive
behavior, albeit justified in his opinion. This is a belief often
held by disruptive physicians. It seers, however, that he has at
least in one instance attempted to curve [Sic] this behavior,
although he may need additional skills. Finally, in dealings both
with the Nevada Medical Board and with potential employers,
Dr. Rodriguez had exhibited lack of candor. Fle has tried to
justify this fact by implying that he had good reasons to
withhold information, given the circumstances.

24. Inthe PACE Program assessment report, the psychiatrist, who
conducted a psychiatric evaluation, opined that respondent is safe to practice
medicine and summarized, in pertinent part:

First, based on the data I am aware of, I have a low suspicion
that he has a genuine substance use disorder. It’s hard to
imagine he would be able to go through two years of a rigorous
diversion program with random screening and drug testing, pass
this program while working as an anesthesiologist in Las Vegas
and have an active, significant substance abuse disorder. Worth
noting is that his spotless execution of the mandatory two-year
diversion program is by his self-report. He has demonstrated
poor judgment in terms of discussing his substance abuse
history (i.e. not being fully disclosing) but this does not
necessarily point to a substance abuse disorder. Rather, I am of
the opinion that this nondisclosing tendency is likely related to
his personality style [described below]. On the other hand, it is
my opinion that his generally guarded personality style actually
just bled over to create the appearance of an issue when there
was not one.

In the PACE Program assessment report, the psychiatrist goes into further
detail about respondent’s personality style.

25. Considering the evidence as a whole, there is no dispute that
during the PACE Program psychological and psychiatric evaluations, the
interview by the investigator and during the hearing, respondent statements
were evasive and lacked candor; however, there is insufficient evidence to
establish that he has a substance abuse problem that justifies monitoring by the
medical board.

LEGAL CONCLUSIONS

Standard of Proof

1. The standard of proof in an administrative action seeking to suspend or revoke
a physician’s certificate is clear and convincing evidence. (Eitinger v. Board of Medical
Quality Assurance (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 853, 856.) Clear and convincing evidence
requires a finding of high probability, or evidence so clear as to leave no substantial doubt;
sufficiently strong evidence to command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.
(Katie V. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 586, 594.)

il
Ky
Ne

Relevant Statutes

2. Section 2227 of the Business and Professions Code’ states that a licensee who
is found guilty under the Medical Practice Act may have his license revoked, suspended for a
period not to exceed one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of probation
monitoring, be publicly reprimanded or have such other action taken in relation to discipline
as the medical board deems proper.

3. Section 2305 states:

The revocation, suspension, or other discipline, restriction or
limitation imposed by another state upon a license or certificate
to practice medicine issued by that state, or the revocation,
suspension, or restriction of the authority to practice medicine
by any agency of the federal government, that would have been
grounds for discipline in Califomia of a licensee under this
chapter [Chapter 5, the Medical Practice Act] shall constitute
grounds for disciplinary action for unprofessional conduct
against the licensee in this state.

4, - Section 141 states:

(a) For any licensee holding a license issued by a board under
the jurisdiction of the department, a disciplinary action taken by
another state, by any agency of the federal government, or by
another country for any act substantially related to the practice
regulated by the California license, may be a ground for
disciplinary action by the respective state licensing board. A
certified copy of the record of the disciplinary action taken
against the licensee by another state, an agency of the federal
government, or another country shall be conclusive evidence of
the events related therein. ‘ uO

(b) Nothing in this section shall preclude a board from applying
a specific statutory provision in the licensing act administered
by that board that provides for discipline based upon a
disciplinary action taken against the licensee by another state, an
agency of the federal government, or another country.

4 Hereinafter all reference is to the Business and Profession Code unless otherwise
stated.
5. Section 2234 states, in part:

The board shall take action against any licensee who is charged
with unprofessional conduct. In addition to other provisions of
this article, unprofessional conduct includes, but is not limited to
the following:

(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly,
assisting in or abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate
any provision of this chapter.

f.--¥

(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or
corruption which {sic] is substantially related to the
qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon.

(f) Any action or conduct which [sic] would have warranted the
denial of a certificate.

6. Section 226] states:

Knowingly making or signing any certificate of
other document directly or indirectly related to
the practice of medicine or podiatry which falsely
represents the existence or nonexistence of a state
of facts, constitutes unprofessional conduct.

Violations

7. Respondent’s conduct and the action of the Nevada Board of Medical
Examiners constitute unprofessional conduct within the meaning of Section 2305. This
conduct is subject to discipline within the meaning of Section 141, subdivision (a).

8. Respondent’s license is subject to disciplinary action under Section 2234,
subdivisions (a), (e) and (f) in that respondent was dishonest on his application.

Evaluation

9, The purpose of the Medical Practice Act is to assure the high quality of
medical practice. (Shea v. Board of Medical Examiners (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 564, 574.)
Conduct supporting the revocation or suspension of a medical license must demonstrate
unfitness to practice. The purpose of a disciplinary action is not to punish, but to protect the
public. In an administrative disciplinary proceeding, the inquiry must be limited to the effect


ne
of the doctar’s actions upon the quality of his service to his patients. (Watson v. Superior
Court (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1407, 1416.)

10. Rehabilitation requires a consideration of those offenses from which one has
allegedly been rehabilitated. (Pacheco v. State Bar (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1041, 1048.)
Rehabilitation is a state of mind, and the law looks with favor upon rewarding with the
opportunity to serve one who has achieved reformation and regeneration. (id., at 1058.)
The absence of a prior disciplinary record is a mitigating factor. (Chefsky v. State Bar (1984)
36 Cal.3d 116, 132, fn. 10.) Remorse and cooperation are mitigating factors. (/n re
Demergian (1989) 48 Cal.3d 284, 296.) While a candid admission of misconduct and full
acknowledgment of wrongdoing may be a necessary step in the rehabilitation process, it is
only a first step. A truer indication of rehabilitation is presented if an individual
demonstrates by sustained conduct over an extended period of time that he is once again fit
to practice. (In re Trebileock (1981) 30 Cal.3d 312, 315-316.)

11. The medical board issued respondent's Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate
10 years ago. During that time, he has practiced medicine in Nevada and California.
Respondent's license was suspended in the State of Nevada based on disruptive behavior and
refusal to take a drug test at or about the time of the incident in May 2014, On August 13,
2015, the Nevada Board of Medical Examiners lifted the summary suspension of -
respondent’s license to practice medicine.

Respondent engaged in disruptive behavior while practicing as an anesthesiologist,
and he refused to submit to drug testing when requested to do so by his employer. As a
consequence his license to practice medicine was suspended until he could complete the
PACE Program. He returned to California to practice medicine; he was dishonest and
evasive on his application for hospital privileges in California, At no time did he notify the
administrators of the HVMC that his license to practice medicine in Nevada had been
suspended. Despite discipline by his Nevada employer, suspension of his license to practice
medicine in Nevada, evaluation by the PACE Program, successfully passing Phases J and I
and some evidence of compliance with the recommendation of the PACE Program,
respondent’s testimony in this case was evasive and lacking in candor.

Physician honesty is critical. (Windham v. Board of Medical Quality Assurance
(1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 461,470.) “There is ng other profession in which one passes so
completely within the power and contro] of another as does the medical patient.” (Shea v.
Board of Medical Examiners, supra, 81 Cal.App.3d at p.578.) “[T]here is more to being a
licensed professional than mere knowledge and ability. Honesty and integrity are deeply and
daily involved in various aspects of the practice.” (Griffiths v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4" 757, 772-3, citing Golde v. Fox (1979) 98 Cal.App.3d 167, 176.)

As such, a period of probation with appropriate terms and conditions are necessary to
protect the public.
ORDER

Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate Number A 92346 issued to Hector Fernando
Rodriguez, M.D. is revoked. However, the order of revocation is stayed, and is placed on
probation for five upon the following terms and conditions.

1. Psychiatric Evaluation

Within 30 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, and on whatever
periodic basis thereafter may be required by the medical board or its designee, respondent
shall undergo and complete a psychiatric evaluation (and psychological testing, if deemed
necessary) by a board-appointed board certified psychiatrist, who shall consider any
information provided by the medical board or designee and any other information the
psychiatrist deems relevant, and shall furnish a written evaluation report to the medical board
or its designee. Psychiatric evaluations conducted prior to the effective date of the Decision
shall not be accepted towards the fulfillment of this requirement. Respondent shall pay the
cost of all psychiatric evaluations and psychological testing.

Respondent shall comply with all restrictions or conditions recommended by the
evaluating psychiatrist within 15 calendar days after being notified by the Board or its
designee.

2, Psychotherapy

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shal] submit
to the medical board or its designee for prior approval the name and qualifications of a
California-licensed board certified psychiatrist or a licensed psychologist who has a doctoral
degree in psychology and at least five years of postgraduate experience in the diagnosis and
treatment of emotional and mental disorders. Upon approval, respondent shall undergo and
continue psychotherapy treatment, including any modifications to the frequency of
psychotherapy, until the medical board or its designee decms that no further psychotherapy is
necessary.

The psychotherapist shall consider any information provided by the medical or its
designee and any other information the psychotherapist deems relevant and shall furnish a.
written evaluation report to the medical board or its designee. Respondent shall cooperate in
providing the psychotherapist any information and documents that the psychotherapist may
deem pertinent.

Respondent shall have the treating psychotherapist submit quarterly status reports to
the medical board or its designee. If, prior to the completion of probation, respondent is
found to be mentally unfit to resume the practice of medicine without restrictions, the
medical board shall retain continuing jurisdiction over respondent’s license, and the period of
probation shall be extended until the medical board determines that respondent is mentally fit
to resume the practice of medicine without restrictions,

{4
Respondent shall pay the cost of all psychotherapy.
3. Education Course

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, and on an annual basis
thereafter, respondent shall submit to the medical board or its designee for its prior approval
educational program(s) or course(s) which shall not be less than 40 hours per year, for each
year of probation. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be aimed at correcting any
areas of deficient practice or knowledge and shall be Category I certified. The educational
program(s) or course(s) shall be at respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the
Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. Following the
completion of each course, the medical board or its designee may administer an examination
to test respondent’s knowledge of the course. Respondent shall provide proof of attendance
for 65 hours of CME of which 40 hours were in satisfaction of this condition.

4, Professionalism Program (Ethics Course)

Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shall enroll
in a professionalism program, that meets the requirements of Title 16, California Code of
Regulations, section 1358. Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete that
program. Respondent shall provide any information and documents that the program may
deem pertinent. Respondent shall successfully complete the classroom component of the
program not later than six months after respondent’s initial enrollment, and the longitudinal
component of the program not later than the time specified by the program, but no later than
one year after attending the classroom component. The professionalism program shall be at
respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing Medical Education
requirements for renewal of licensure.

A professionalism program taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the
medical board or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the
program would have been approved by the medical board or its designee had the program
been taken after the effective date of this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the medical board
or its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successtully completing the program or
not later than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later,

5. Notification

Within seven days of the effective date of this Decision, respondent shall provide a
true copy of this Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the Chief Executive Officer
at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to respondent, at any other
facility where respondent engages in the practice of medicine, including all physician and

[5
locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chicf Executive Officer at every
insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to respondent. He shall
submit proof of compliance to the medical board or its designee within 15 calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or insurance
carrier.

6. Supervision of Physician Assistants
During probation, respondent is prohibited from supervising physician assistants.
7. Obey All Laws

Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules governing the practice
of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court ordered criminal
probation, payments, and other orders.

8. Quarterly Reports

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations under penalty of perjury on forms
provided by the medical board, stating whether there has been compliance with all the
conditions of probation.

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after
the end of the preceding quarter.

9. General Probation Requirements

A. Compliance with Probation Unit — Respondent shall comply with the
medical board’s probation unit and all terms and conditions of this
Decision.

B. Address Changes ~ At all times, respondent shal] keep the medical
board informed of respondent’s business and residence addresses, email
address (if available), and telephone number(s). Changes ofsuch
addresses shall be immediately communicated in writing to the medical
board or its designee. Under no circumstances shall a post office box
serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business and
Professions Code section 2021, subdivision (b).

Cc. Places of Practice - Respondent shall not engage in the practice of
medicine in his place of residence. Except as required by Pacific
Medical Care Mobile Services, respondent shall not engage in the
practice of medicine in a patient’s place of residence. Should
respondent cease employment with Pacific Mobile Services, respondent

shall not engage in the practice of medicine in respondent’s or a
patient’s place of residence unless the patient resides in a skilled
nursing facility or other similar licensed facility.

D. License Renewal - Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed
California Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate.

E. Travel or Residence Outside California - Respondent shall
immediately inform the medical board or its designee, in writing, of
travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California that lasts, or is
contemplated to last, more than 30 calendar days.

In the event respondent leaves the State of California to reside or to
practice, respondent shall notify the medical board or its designee in
writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and return.

10. ‘Interview with the Medical Board or Designee

Upon request for interviews, respondent shall be available in person either at
respondent’s place of business or at the probation unit office, with or without prior notice
throughout the term of probation.

11. Non-practice While on Probation

Respondent shall notify the medical board or its designee, in writing, within 15
calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than 30 calendar days and within
15 calendar days of respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice, as defined in Business and
Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052, is any period of time that respondent is not
practicing medicine in California, for at least 40 hours in a calendar month, in direct patient
care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the medical board. All
time spent in an intensive training program that has been approved by the medical board or
iis designee shall not be considered non-practice. Practicing medicine in another state of the
United States or federal jurisdiction while on probation with the medical licensing authority
of that state or jurisdiction shall not be considered non-practice. A medical board-ordered
suspension of practice shall not be considered as a period of non-practice.

In the event respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation exceeds 18
calendar months, prior to resuming the practice of medicine, respondent shall successfully
complete a clinical training program that meets the criteria of Condition 14 of this Order.

Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two years.

Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term.

\7
Periods of non-practice will relieve respondent of the responsibility to comply with
the probationary terms and conditions with the exception of this condition and the following
terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws; and General Probation Requirements.

12. Probation Monitoring Costs

Respondent shall pay the costs associated with probation monitoring each and every
year of probation, as designated by the medical board, which may be adjusted on an annual
basis. Such costs shall be payable to the medical board and delivered to the medical board or
its designee no later than January 31 of cach calendar year.

43. Violation of Probation

Failure to fully comply with any term or condition of probation is a violation of
probation. If respondent violates probation in any respect, after giving respondent notice and
the opportunity to be heard, the medical board may revoke probation and carry out the
disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, Petition to Revoke Probation, or an
Interim Suspension Order is filed against respondent during probation, the medical board
shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation shall be
extended until the matter is final.

14. License Surrender

Following the effective date of this Decision, if respondent ceases practicing due to
retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy the terms and conditions of
probation, respondent may request to surrender his license. The medical board reserves the
right to evaluate respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion in determining whether or
not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate and reasonable under
the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, within 15 calendar days,
respondent shall deliver his wallet and wall certificate to the medical board or its designee,
and he shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject to the terms
and conditions of probation. If respondent re-applies for a medical license, the application
shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

15. Completion of Probation '
Respondent shall comply with all financial obligations (e.g., restitution, probation

costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the completion of probation. Upon successful
completion of probation, respondent’s certificate shall be fully restored.

{8
DATED: December 7, 2015

seallit Jan
| waller ‘a Jour.
24181 1FCSD26411

VALLERA J. JOHNSON
Administrative Law Judge
Office of Administrative Hearings

Medical Board of California
L do herby Certify that this document is a frue and
COLEOCT cOpy of the original on file in this oltice.


“Biguatare ay)
wen xil2 ?yyddod an ae L?) Op ase
‘Title

(Atte 3, TAO!

hile

