Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 17-32905-1
Complaint Against i= | -& D>
Poupak P. Ziaei, M.D., DEC - & 201?
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. MEDICAL EXAMIBERS
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and IC, and
Poupak P. Ziaei, M.D. (Respondent), formerly a licensed medical doctor in Nevada, represented
by Monte Neil Stewart, Esq., of Wright, Stanish & Winckler, hereby enter into this Settlement
Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. Background

1. Respondent is a physician who was licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of
the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada on November 14, 2007
(License No. 12525). Respondent failed to renew her license to practice medicine in June, 2017 and
is currently not licensed.

2. On April 11, 2017, the IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint) charging Respondent
with violating the Medical Practice Act. The Complaint alleges: one violation of NRS 630.304(1)

(renewing license by fraud or misrepresentation); three violations of NRS 630.306(1)(1) (failure to

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent.
Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in
the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or
criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1of8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


report criminal action); two violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(1) (engaging in conduct which is
intended to deceive); one violation of NRS 630.301(9) (engaging in conduct that brings the medical
profession into disrepute); three violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) (engaging in conduct which is in
violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy); one violation of NRS 630.3062(1)
(failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records); one violation of NRS
630.306(1)(a) (inability to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety); and one violation of
NRS 630.306(1)(m) (failure to be found competent to practice medicine as a result of an examination
to determine medical competency pursuant to NRS 630.318).

3. By reason of the aforementioned allegations, the Respondent is subject to discipline by
the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with counsel of her choosing
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in NRS
Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against her, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the
right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board

concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Exarniners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent was, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been,
a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act. Respondent failed to renew her license to practice medicine in
June 2017, and her license expired on June 30, 2017. Pursuant to NRS 630.298, the Board
maintains jurisdiction over Respondent despite the expiration of her license.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that, if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent agrees
that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to have a
full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical

Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The Board acknowledges Respondent
is not admitting that the Board’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit and
Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in Complaint,
but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the
presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this
Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that
is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly, the following terms
and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to the following:

i. Count VII: a violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) (engaging in conduct which is
in violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy) as set forth in the
Complaint;

ii. Count IX: a violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) (engaging in conduct which is in
violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy) as set forth in the

Complaint;


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


iii. Count XI: a violation of NRS 630.3062(1) (failure to maintain timely, legible,
accurate and complete medical records) as set forth in the Complaint;

iv. Count XII: a violation of NRS 630.306(1)(a) (inability to practice medicine with
reasonable skill and safety) as set forth in the Complaint

vy. Count XIII: a violation of NRS 630.306(1)(m) (failure to be found competent to
practice medicine as a result of an examination to determine medical competency pursuant
to NRS 630.318.
b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter, the current amount being $14,290.16, not
including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. Payment of
$1,000.00 will be due within seven (7) calendar days of the Board’s approval of this
Agreement. Based on Respondent’s current financial circumstances, payment of $100.00
per month will be due on the first day of the month beginning on January 1, 2018 through
June 1, 2018. The remaining payment will be due in monthly installments of $1,000.00
commencing on July 1, 2018 and the first day of each month thereafter, until satisfied in
full.
C. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.
d. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.
e. The IC will dismiss Counts J, II, IV, V, VI, VII, and X with prejudice.
f. The IC will dismiss Count III without prejudice.
g. If Respondent chooses to apply for reinstatement of her license to practice
medicine in Nevada, or if Respondent applies for licensure anew after expiration of the
reinstatement period, and if Respondent satisfies all other applicable licensing
requirements, Respondent will be required to undergo an evaluation to determine
Respondent’s fitness to practice medicine, at her own expense. The evaluation may be
Respondent’s successful passage of the Maintenance of Certification Examination of the

American Board of Internal Medicine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board reserves


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


its right to order its own evaluation of Respondent to determine her fitness to practice
medicine. Respondent will be required to appear at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board subsequent to submittal of an application for reinstatement of license, or licensure
anew after expiration of the reinstatement period.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,

respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

6 o0f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

EF HY bd



8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Failure to comply with the terms of this

Agreement, once approved and adopted by the Board, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
If

7 0f8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

{11

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this VL day of voV , 2017.

Robert Kilroy, Esq.
General 1 and Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this 20% of Noveweler017.
_ Maife Fea]
By: ek |

Monte Neil Stewart, Esq. .
Attorney for the Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:


Poupak P. Ziaei, M.D., Respondent

the
Dated this7. ()~ day of Neve wiber2017.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 1* day of December 2017, with the final

total amount of costs due of $14,290.16.

D fake fachallotrey

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Presredeftt
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

