OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-12597-1
Against: FILED
MARIA CORAZON O. REGALADO, M.D., MAR 0 4 2022
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MED! MINERS
By:
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron B. Fricke, J.D., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for the
IC, and Maria Corazon O. Regalado, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, assisted
by her attorney, Bridget Kelly, J.D., M.S., of the law firm of Nutile Law, hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

2. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active by the Board pursuant to
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative
Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in Nevada. Her license was
originally issued on April 27, 1999 (License No. 8966).

3. On November 4, 2021, in Case No. 21-12597-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges three (3) violations of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Counts I, IV, and V1); two (2)
violations of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of Practice (Counts II and VII); and three
(3) violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records (Counts III, V,

"An agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

lof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

and VIII). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in
NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel concerning,
the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and of |
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in NRS
Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the
right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board concludes
that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between Respondent
and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for
consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent understands
that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the Board has
the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement. Respondent
further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the terms and

conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.
Mf


iy

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

B. TERMS & CONDITIONS
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and

conditions:

L. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_ Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that
may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges
that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges that

Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Counts II and VII, consisting of two (2) violations of
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2), Violation of Standards of Practice, and admits to Counts Ill, V, and VIII,
consisting of three (3) violations of NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Failure to Maintain Complete Medical
Records, as alleged in the Complaint.

b. Respondent's license to practice medicine shall be placed on probation for a
period of forty-eight (48) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of
this Agreement (the “Probation Period”). During the Probation Period, should Respondent commit
any new violations of the Medical Practice Act or fail to comply with any term or condition of this
Agreement, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in the State of Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, maintaining the suspension
pending final adjudication by the Board of the alleged violation. Specifically, during the Probation
Period, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions, which hereby constitute
specific orders of the Board:

i. Respondent shall pay a fine in the amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this
Agreement.

bof8

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL





ii. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the
investigation and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of three thousand seven hundred
seventy dollars and eighty-four cents ($3,770.84).

iii. Respondent shall complete twenty-one (21) hours of continuing
medical education (CME) regarding best practices in prescribing of controlled substances, pain
management, and addiction, within six (6) months of the date of the Board's acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME
tequirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of|
Nevada, and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement prior to their completion, and
proof of completion shall be provided to the Board.

iv. Respondent shall complete sevevteen (17) hours of CME regarding
best practices in medical recordkeeping within six (6) months of the date of the Board's acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to
any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the
State of Nevada, and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement prior to their
completion, and proof of completion shall be provided to the Board.

v. Respondent shall complete ten (10) hours of CME regarding best
practices in hospice and palliative care within six (6) months of the date of the Board's acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME may be used to fulfill
the twenty (20) hours of CME within Respondent’s scope of practice or specialty, pursuant to
NAC 630.153(1), which are regularly required of Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State
of Nevada, and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement prior to their completion, and
proof of completion shall be provided to the Board.

c. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

d. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

a ne

e. The remaining counts of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from
the Board’s corresponding investigative case file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board mecting where this

Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.



is)

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,

expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may


‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevads 89521
(77S) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

wont aur ne

PMeeReePpPRReNN&RkZSSEZDREREH IOS

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

. A 2% .
DATED this_Q"_ day of Fesavasy ,262t. DATED this day of 2021.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NUTILE LAW

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

By: — By;
AARON B. FRICKE, .D._ i .S.
General Counsel 7395 S. Pecos Rd., Suite 103
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89120
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 307-4871
Tel: (702) 786-3813 Email: Bridget@NutileLaw.com
Email: africke@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this 2g day of NEC 52021.
py: C@

MARIA CORAZON 0. REGALADO, M.D.,

Nevada License No. 8966
Respondent


1 ORDER

2 || 1T IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 21-12597-1)
3 || was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the
4 || 4th day of March, 2022.

5 DATED this 4th day of March, 2022.

6 NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.

Board President

Examiners
Nv

(773) 688-2559

Nevada State

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



