OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-22461-1

Against: FILED

MATTHEW OBIM OKEKE, M.D. DEC - 8 2022

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. MEDICAYEXAMINERS

By: LA

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW, AND ORDER

This case was presented for adjudication and decision before the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (Board), during a regularly scheduled Board meeting on December 2, 2022,
located at 325 E. Warm Springs Road, Suite 225, Las Vegas, NV 89119 video conferenced to
9600 Gateway Drive, Reno, NV 89521. Matthew Obim Okeke, M.D. (Respondent), was properly
served with a notice of the adjudication, including the date, time, and location. Respondent was
present with his counsel Liborius Agwara, Esq. The adjudicating members of the Board
participating in these Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law (FOFCOL) and Order were: Nicola
(Nick) M. Spirtos, M.D., Ms. Maggie Arias-Petrel, Victor M. Muro, M.D., Ms. Pamela Beal and
Carl N. Williams, Jr., M.D., FACS. Sophia Long, Esq., Senior Deputy Attorney General, served
as legal counsel to the Board.

The Board, having received and read the Complaint and exhibits admitted at the hearing of
this matter, the Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations (Synopsis of Record)!, and the
transcript of the hearing, made its decision pursuant to its authority and provisions of the Nevada
Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), NRS Chapter 622A, and NRS Chapter 233B, as
applicable.


! The Hearing Officer’s Findings and Recommendations were prepared by Charles Woodman, Esq., who was
appointed as Hearing Officer under NRS 630.106 in this matter and presided over the hearing.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559




The Board, after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being fully
advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
ORDER in this matter, as follows:

FINDINGS OF FACT
I

Respondent held a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada issued by the Board
from September 6, 2013, to present.

IL.

On October 26, 2021, the Investigative Committee filed its formal Complaint in Case No.
21-22461-1, alleging Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. Respondent was served with
the Complaint on November 8, 2021, at his address of record with the Board. Pursuant to
NRS 630.254, each licensee shall maintain a permanent mailing address with the board to which
all communications from the Board to the licensee must be sent. A licensee who changes his or
her permanent mailing address shall notify the Board in writing of the new permanent mailing
address within 30 days after the change.

The Complaint alleges two (2) violations of the Medical Practice Act that constitute
grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee, as follows: one (1) violation of
NRS 630.301(4) Malpractice and one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain
Proper Medical Records.

Respondent filed an answer to the allegations set forth in the Complaint on
January 11, 2022.

II.

An Early Case Conference was conducted January 21, 2022. Aaron B. Fricke, J.D.,
General Counsel at the time, (Mr. Fricke) was present on behalf of the Investigative Committee
(IC) of the Board, and Liborius Agwara, Esq., appeared telephonically on behalf of Respondent
along with Hearing Officer Charles Woodman, Esq. The parties agreed to dates for the prehearing
conference, exchange of documents, and the hearing date.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


In compliance with NAC 630.465, a Notice and Order Scheduling Prehearing and Hearing,
setting prehearing and hearing was filed on January 31, 2022, setting the prehearing conference
for March 25, 2022, at 10:00 a.m., and setting the hearing for April 28 and 29, 2022, at 9:00 a.m.,
at the Office of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, 9600 Gateway Drive, Reno,
Nevada 89521 video conferenced to the Board’s Las Vegas Office, located at 325 E. Warm
Springs Road, Suite 225, Las Vegas, NV 89119. The Scheduling Order was delivered to
Respondent’s Counsel via USPS Certified Mail on February 2, 2022.

A second Notice and Order Scheduling Prehearing and Hearing was then filed on
June 7, 2022, changing the Prehearing Conference to June 21, 2022, and dates for the formal
Hearing to be determined at the Prehearing Conference. A copy of this Order was mailed to
Respondent’s counsel on June 7, 2022, with courtesy copy by email.

The Prehearing Conference was held telephonically as noticed and ordered, at which time,
legal counsel for the IC, Sarah A. Bradley, J.D., Deputy Executive Director, appeared. Liborius
Agwara, Esq., appeared telephonically on behalf of Respondent along with Hearing Officer
Charles Woodman, Esq. Respondent and his counsel were timely and properly served with the
IC’s Prehearing Conference Statement, filed June 16, 2022, and the mandated Prehearing
Disclosures in accordance with NRS and NAC Chapters 630, NRS Chapters 241, 622A and 233B,
and the requirements of due process, by Fed Ex 2-Day Priority Mail, delivered to Respondent’s
counsel on June 17, 2022.

Following the Prehearing Conference, an Order After Pre-Hearing Conference was filed
June 27, 2022, setting the sate for a formal Hearing to be held July 28, 2022, at 9:00 a.m.
Respondent and his counsel were mailed a copy of the Order on June 28, 2022, with courtesy copy
by email.

A third Notice and Order Scheduling Hearing was filed August 19, 2022, rescheduling the
Hearing date for September 12, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. Respondent and his counsel were mailed a
copy of the Order on June 28, 2022, with courtesy copy by email.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


IV.

On September 12, 2022, as duly noticed and ordered, a hearing was held before the
Hearing Officer to receive evidence and to hear arguments of both parties. Legal counsel for the
IC, Ms. Bradley, appeared. Respondent and his counsel appeared in the Las Vegas Board office.
Ms. Bradley presented the IC’s case, offered documentary evidence and presented witness
testimony. Exhibits 1 through 15, were marked and admitted into evidence.

The Hearing Officer provided the Synopsis of Record, filed November 17, 2022. This
matter was scheduled for final adjudication on December 2, 2022, at a regularly scheduled Board
meeting.

The notice of the adjudication was sent via USPS Certified Mail to Respondent’s counsel
on October 26, 2022.

A copy of the adjudication materials along with a copy of the Hearing Officer’s Synopsis
of Record and second notice of the Board meeting were mailed via Fed Ex 2-Day mail to
Respondent’s counsel and were delivered on Respondent’s address of record on November 22,
2022.

Vv.

Pursuant to NRS 622A.300(5)(a), the Synopsis of Record of the Hearing Officer is hereby
approved by the Board with modification, and is hereby specifically incorporated and made part of
this Order by reference and attached hereto as Exhibit 1. The Board rejects the findings and
recommendations made by the Hearing Officer with respect to Count I.

VI.

The Board hereby finds that Count II, as set forth in the Complaint, and as recapitulated in
Paragraph II above, has been established by a preponderance of the evidence. The Board hereby
finds that Count I, as set forth in the Complaint, and as recapitulated in Paragraph II above, has
not been established by a preponderance of the evidence.

Vil.
If any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of Law, it

may be so construed.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


RP RPP PRPRRNBR SBS BaRRE BRAS

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.

The Board has jurisdiction over Respondent and the Complaint, and an adjudication of this

matter by the Board members as set forth herein is proper.
II.

Respondent was timely and properly served with the Complaint, and all notices and orders
in advance of the hearing and adjudication thereon, in accordance with NRS and NAC
Chapters 630, NRS Chapters 241, 622A and 233B, and all legal requirements of due process.

Til.

With respect to the allegations of the Complaint, the Board concludes that Respondent has
violated the Medical Practice Act, as alleged in the Complaint, as follows: one (1) violation of
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records. Accordingly, Respondent is
subject to discipline pursuant to NRS 630.352.

IV.

The Board finds that, pursuant to NRS 622.400, recovery from Respondent of reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigation and disciplinary
proceedings against Respondent is appropriate. The Board has reviewed the Investigative
Committee’s Memorandum of Costs and Disbursements and Attorneys’ Fees, and the Board finds
them to be the actual fees and costs incurred by the Board as part of its investigative,
administrative and disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, and finds them to be reasonable
and necessary based on: (1) the abilities, training, education, experience, professional standing
and skill demonstrated by Board staff and attorneys; (2) the character of the work done, its
difficulty, its intricacy, its importance, the time and skill required, the responsibility imposed and
the prominence and character of the parties where, as in this case, they affected the importance of
the litigation; (3) the work actually performed by the Board’s attorneys and staff, and the skill,
time and attention given to that work; and (4) the product of the work and benefits to the Board
and the people of Nevada that were derived therefrom.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



Vv.

If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Finding of Fact, it
may be so construed.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good cause
appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act, as alleged in the Complaint, as
follows: one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records
(Count II).

2. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(e), the Board shall administer a written public
reprimand to Respondent.

3. Respondent’s license shall be suspended for two (2) years from the date of the
Board’s order. This suspension shall be stayed, and Respondent’s license will be placed on
probation for two (2) years from the date of the Board’s order. If Respondent fails to comply with
the terms and conditions of this Order, including a failure to timely comply with the terms and
conditions of this Order, or commits a new violation of the Medical Practice Act during the
probationary period, then, after an order to show cause wherein the IC proves by a preponderance
of the evidence that the failure to comply or failure to timely comply or violation did occur, the
stayed suspension will be immediately lifted and in effect. Matters currently being investigated by
the Board and/or pending action by the Board will not be deemed a violation of this Order.

4. The following terms and conditions shall apply during Respondent’s probationary
period:

a. Respondent must be always accompanied by a chaperone during any and all
interactions with female patients. A list of chaperones used by Respondent must be provided to
Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable
judgment of the Board and those chaperones must first be approved by Strategic Management


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

iS)



Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable judgment of the Board before
use.

b. Respondent must be monitored by Strategic Management Services or other
monitoring company approved in the reasonable judgment of the Board. Strategic Management
Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable judgment of the Board shall
provide quarterly reports to the Board regarding its review of Respondent’s charts and patient
records. Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable
judgment of the Board shall review 10% of Respondent’s patient charts each quarter, not to
exceed fifty (50) charts per quarter and provide a report to the Board. At the end of the first year,
Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable
judgment of the Board shall review fifty patient charts and provide a report to the Board.
Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable
judgment of the Board will be reviewing all aspects of these patient charts, including legibility and
completeness of records, verification of the presence of a chaperone for visits with female
patients, and compliance with Nevada law regarding prescribing controlled substances, such as
proof of regular PMP queries for patients.

c. Respondent shall pay all costs associated with the monitoring of him and/or
his practice conducted by Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved
in the reasonable judgment of the Board.

d. At the end of the first year, after successful completion of monitoring and
charter review by Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved in the
reasonable judgment of the Board, Respondent may come to the Board at a public meeting and
request that the Board remove the requirement that he be monitored by Strategic Management
Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable judgment of the Board from his
probation.

e. Even if the Board removes the requirement that Respondent be monitored
by Strategic Management Services or other monitoring company approved in the reasonable

judgment of the Board as described above in paragraph b, Respondent shall continue to be

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


qils
eFig
BaZa
gee
2am


é

Zz



accompanied by a chaperone at all times during any and all interactions with female patients
during the remainder of his two (2) year probationary period or until such time as a request is
made and the Board removes this requirement.

5. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(h), Respondent is hereby ordered to pay a fine of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) to be paid within sixty (60) days from service of this
Order.

6. Because the IC prevailed on only one (1) count of the Complaint, the Board
reduced the costs assessed against Respondent in this matter from eighteen thousand two hundred
twenty-nine dollars forty-four cents ($18,229.44) as shown in the IC’s Memorandum of Costs
and Disbursements and Attorneys’ Fees to ten thousand dollars ($10,000).

7. The Board found that the reasonable, necessary, and actually incurred costs and
expenses for the investigation and prosecution of this case in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000), shall be reimbursed by Respondent within ninety (90) days from the service of this
Order. The Board, and/or its designee, are granted the authority to collect any and all funds due
under this Order.

8. Respondent shall complete eight (8) hours of Continued Medical Education (CME)
on record-keeping and documentation and twenty-two (22) hours in the best practices in
prescribing in addition to the statutory required CME requirements for licensure. These CME
credits must be completed on or before December 31, 2023; and

9. This Order shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required by
law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

DATED this 8th day of December, 2022.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

AURY NAGY, M.D.
President of the Board

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

i
Paes

a3
yi



CERTIFICATION

I certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of Medical
Examiners in the matter of MATTHEW OBIM OKEKE, M.D., Case No. 21-22461-1.

I further certify that Aury Nagy, M.D., is the President of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as such; and that the
signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said Aury Nagy, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as
Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

DATED this 8th day of December, 2022.
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
py: _ Megge Apiaatec),

MAGGIE ARIAS-PETREL
Secretary-Treasurer and Public Member of the Board

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1

11,


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
FILED
NOV 17 2022
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
M RS
Against oy:
MATTHEW OBIM OKEKE, M.D.,

Respondent. Case No.: 21-22461-1

SYNOPSIS OF RECORD

Hearing Officer Charles B. Woodman, having heard all forma! pre-hearing
conferences, as well as the formal Hearing of this matter, hereby presents the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners with his Analysis of this case. This Analysis is based upon
all evidence adduced at the formal Hearing, and this Hearing Officer's findings of facts
and conclusions of law, which findings include the credibility of the witnesses who gave
evidence.

LEV.

This case came on for hearing on September 12, 2022. Ms. Sarah A. Bradley, Esq.,
appeared on behalf of the Investigative Committee (“IC”) of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners, Liborius Agwara, Esq., appeared on behalf of and with Dr. Agwara.
Dr. Agwara and his counsel appeared at the Board’s Southern Nevada office where the
official reporter was also located. Ms. Bradley appeared at the Board’s Northern Nevada
office where the hearing officer was located. The parties were connected via video
teleconference communications.

NRS 233B.123 controls evidence admitted in contested administrative hearings.

That code states in pertinent part that “evidence may be admitted, except where precluded



by statute, if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonable and prudent persons in the
conduct of their affairs.”

By conclusion of the formal hearing of this case, Exhibits 1 through 12, as well as
Exhibits 14 and 15 offered by the IC and were admitted into evidence. Those admitted
Exhibits are attached hereto. Exhibit 13 was excluded from evidence based on the
testimony of the IC’s main witness Dr. Jayleen Chen, M.D. Dr. Okeke chose not to
present a defense case, and accordingly did not offer any exhibits.

It is noteworthy that while certain medical records admitted into evidence are
several years old, Dr. Chen acknowledged that she did not review records or testify to facts
alleged to have occurred prior to 2017. (See Factual Evidence below.) Dr. Okeke’s
counsel argued that those records that predate 2017 and were not reviewed by Dr. Chen
should thus not be considered. However, all medical records admitted into evidence from
years prior to 2017, while not addressed by Dr. Chen, are still in evidence and thus part of
the record which can be considered in the determination of this case. Accordingly,
paragraphs 2 through 6 of the Complaint on file which allege facts prior to 2017 are not
legally barred from consideration.

FACTUAL EVIDENCE

The facts adduced at the formal Hearing of this matter, and which are considered
worthy of review by the Board, are as follows from the formal transcript. Except where a
quote begins with a “Q” denoting that counsel is asking the witness a question, all
testimony presented herein is that of Dr. Chen. A number at the beginning of a line
denotes the corresponding line number the on the page of the transcript where the quote is
found. All emphasis on the font of the typed testimony (italics and underlines) has been
supplied by the undersigned hearing officer for the Board’s assistance in pointing out
particularly significant testimony.

M11



Direct Examination of Dr. Chen by Ms. Bradley, Counsel for the IC

Page 47 (“P.47”)

12 Q. Dr. Chen, what is your overall opinion regarding Dr. Okeke's care of Patient A?
14 [felt there were some areas that fell below the standard of care, especially
regarding the thoroughness of documentation. When I was reviewing it, I did have some
difficulty, kind of, deciphering his medical decision-making.

19 Q. When you say documentation, what do you mean by that?

21 Just from looking at the progress notes, it was really hard for me to get a good
grasp of her symptomatology. It was difficult to see how severe her symptoms were at
what specific time, There were medication changes that I couldn't decipher the
justification for. And I just felt those areas were lacking.

P.48

3 Q. Okay. I think there's some conversation -- well, some use by Dr. Okeke of
template material. What is template material?

6 In the electronic medical records, there is a way to kind of expedite your notes
because documentation can be rather burdensome. So there are specific templates that you
can use that you can kind of set up your notes, so they are similar from patient to patient,
visit to visit, and it helps guide you or remember what to put in the note that might be
helpful.

13° Q. Did you note Dr. Okeke's use of template material in notes?

15 There was definitely a template that was used, and my concern was sometimes
information from one note to the other wasn't really changed, or it really just remained the
same. It didn't provide any updates, in my opinion, how she was doing in the interim from
visit to visit,

21 Q. So it sounds like what you're saying is there may have been a note made at one
visit, but then that note didn't get changed the next time?

24 Yes. I would say so.

25 Q. So that's a pitfall for electronic records?

P.49

1 For sure.

2 Q. It's trying to help us, but it can fill in the same things?
4 Yes, unfortunately.

Page 53
8. It's not always necessary to write a medication, but usually it's mentioned

somewhere in the note.
18. I feel that it could have been helpful to understand why each of these medications

were prescribed.



P.55

2 Yes. It's hard for me to tell upon my first review whether the treatment medications
was what she was already on or what she's starting. I imagine it's what she was already
on, but I can't tell if there were any additional medications or not.

P.5S6

2 Q. So you're comparing it with NSBME 0050, and that visit is dated September 11, 2017;
is that correct?

4 That's correct,

5 Q. And you're saying the chief complaint looks like there's a lot of template material
copied over, right?

8 Yes. I think it's the same for the next visit as well.

10 Q. If we keep going to NSBME 0055, October 9, 2017, you're saying that's the same
template?

12 Yes.

13 Q. And does that continue like that?
14 I think it does. On the 11/6 visit, the 12/4 visit as well.

P57

8 . «I'm trying to look back at my previous notes that I had written when I was first
reviewing, There were just a bunch of changes or additions of medications that didn't really have
a rationale behind that.

P.58

1 1 guess if there were complaints that they were still not feeling any efficacy from that dose,
I would, of course, gauge what symptoms they're still struggling with and increase or decrease
based on their answer.

6 Q. Would that be documented in your notes for that patient?

8 It would be.

9 Q. So you would document a symptom that it's not improving, and that's your reason for
change?

1] Correct.

24 Q. Did you see in Dr. Okeke's records that the patient's medications were increased at
times?

P.5s9

1 Yes, I did.

2 Q. And did you see that they were decreased at times?

4 Yes, I did,

5 Q. Did you see that rationale documented in the records?

7 1don't think always, no,

8 Q. Sometimes?


10 Q. But it sounds like not to the level that you would expect?

12 Right.

13 Q. Why is it so important to have this documentation in the records?

15 I mean, if there's a continuity of care, if they're switching

providers or someone needs to read the notes, then it's easy to clearly see what's been going on with
the treatment, throughout the treatment.


20 Q. How many patients do you normally see in your practice?

22 Probably 40 patients a week or more.

23 Q. So one of the reasons for good documentation is it helps you remember where the
patient is at?

25 For sure, yes.

P.60
1 Q. Because you can't remember every individual one?

3 Yes.

4 Q. Do you have other people who work with you in your practice?

6 Ido.

7 Q. So they may also see your patients?

8 Yes.

9 Q. So it would be helpful for them to know what's going on?

ia Right.

12 Q. So you had concerns, I think you said, regarding the documentation, regarding the
changes, increase and decrease. What about changes in medication? How does that work?

17 I would prefer seeing that documentation and reasoning why you would switch from one
medication to the next just to kind of get a better idea of the thought process that went behind the
medication changes.

P.65

21 Q. So when you have a patient that has a history of substance abuse and needs medication
to help them, what does that mean to you as a clinician?

24 It definitely is a little bit of a red flag. I think you have to be a little bit more diligent to
make sure there are no diversion or abuse of these medications. We, at my clinic, have a controlled
substance agreement where they sign it, There's certain things that we request, like random drug
screens or any other lab work. If they want to get their prescription filled, they have to sign our
agreement.

P.66

8 Q. You have an agreement, Random drug screens. Do you also check the PMP --
12 Yes. That is mandatory.

13 Q. Mandatory?

14 Yes,

15 Q. When you say mandatory, what does that?

16 We must check their PMP when there is initiation of Schedule 2, or unscheduled
prescription, and I believe every three months during treatment as well.

20 Q. Okay. Every three months, So every three months that you continue to see the
patient, you have to check --

23 Yes.

P.67

20 So in my opinion, Lfeel like baseline labs are very helpful just to kind of establish what the
baseline is, especially when they are taking medications that can have metabolic effects like the
anti-psychotics and to rule out any other medical issues that could contribute to symptoms, like a
thyroid issue or other hormonal imbalance. So it's just a good practice to get lab work done when
you can to establish a baseline.


P.68

3 Q. How often would you order lab work?

4 In my practice, I try to get lab work done during the initial evaluation. If the patient says
they've seen a primary care, I'll try to request records, so I have it in my own chart.

8 Q. Did you see evidence then of Dr. Okeke ordering baseline or routine lab work or
conditioning?

10 1 do not recall seeing any lab results in the chart.

12 Q. So your opinion, would that be failure to follow the standard of care?

14 I would say yes.
19 Q. Did you have concern regarding Dr. Okeke's monitoring of the potential medical

interactions for these drugs?
22 I did, just because of the dosages and how it can be, L guess, cumulative, the effects of
sedation and whatnot and some cognitive dulling.

P.69
17 Q. What is your opinion regarding Dr. Okeke's use of the Nevada Prescription Monitoring
Program for Patient A?

20 I don't think I can remember seeing he checked the PMP or not. Once you check the PMP,
it will log your patient request history, and I didn't remember seeing that.
24 Q. So based on your recollection, he didn't check the PMP for the patient?

P.70

1 Ldon't think so,

2 Q. Just so we're clear, I think earlier you said something about a law that requires the PMP
to be checked. Do you remember when that law went into effect?

7 I don't remember.
8 Q. Would it be helpful if I said it might have been 2017?
10 Yes.

18 Q. I think, at least the notes that I read, show the concern maybe wasn't in the initial visits
with her, but in 2018, he should have been checking -- So if I help you with remembering the status
of the law change, would it be at least part of the treatment? Maybe he didn't have to look at the
PMP, but at least at some point during the treatment, if he hasn't, he would have had to have?

21 Yes,

22 Q. As of May 2019, was it required to look at the PMP?

24 Yes,

25 Q. So he saw the patient through May of 2019. He should have been looking at the PMP
at that time frame, at least?

3 Yes.

P.76
18 _.., And so I fee! like this is another fault of the template system. It seems like the

current medications may have been mislabeled, and it's a running history of everything that she had
been prescribed before,

23 Q. Ifyou look at the treatment plan about halfway through, it says ~ it appears that
perhaps there's an error in the record with regards to the gender of the patient. See where it says,
patient was educated on the dangers of alcohol to him, physical health, and his symptoms. Do you
see that?

4 Yes, I see that.



P.78

1 Q. So let's turn to the next visit, August 14, 2017, and if we go to NSBME 0046. So we
have that list of current medications, Is it your understanding those are what she's currently taking,
or are you still thinking that's a list of the things she tried?

7 Yeah. 1 believe that's the list of things she's tried,

9 Q. Why would you think that?

10 Because Adderall is listed four different times at four different doses. If she was taking it
all at the same of the recommended dosaging. There are a few different anti-psychotics. So it
wouldn't be the practice to be on four different anti-psychotics, but yeah.

16 Q. Sounds like this isn't an accurate list then?

17 No; not of current medications.

18 Q. So then, if we turn to NSBME 0048, we see treatment medications, and that continues
to 0049. Are you thinking those are new medications?

21 I believe those are the current medications,

22 Q. So that's what she's taking today?

23 Yes. Ifyou look above in the treatment plan, if we look, same note, patient was encouraged
to stay clean from alcohol, Patient was educated on the dangers of alcohol to him.

2 Does that appear to be the same note from before?

4 Yes.

P.82

7 Q. And I'm asking Dr. Chen if there were changes made to the treatment plan made for the
plaintiff based on her complaint that day?

10 From reviewing my notes, I had questions because Adderall was added to the treatment
medications without any discussion as to why.

19 Q. Okay. You would expect to see discussion about the addition of that?

21 Right.

22 Q. What kind of discussion?

23 Just indicating what it is being used for. Of course it's an ADHD medication. That should
be reflected in the updated diagnoses. It also was a little bit of a red flag to me because in that
chief complaint section, she had been complaining of anxiety, nervousness. It sounds like --
(Continued inaudible) exacerbate these symptoms if prescribed incorrectly, [ guess.

13 Q. Just so I'm clear. Is Adderall given to people that don't have ADHD?

15 There have been some off-label uses to help with mood, I would say, in the elderly or other
populations, but there's no actual FDA approval, though.

18 Q. So if it's added, you would want to see a discussion somewhere in this record, why it's
being added, and also something added to the assessment that supports the diagnosis for doing
that?

22 Yes, Something like a rule-out, or something to explain why Adderall was added on in
light of these symptoms that were reported in the subjective section.

P.84

9 Q. And if we look at the diagnosis here, what does N-O-S mean?

Oi It stands for "not otherwise specified,” but that terminology has been replaced with the
DSM-S.

13 Q. So here, we see substance abuse more generic and others we've seen alcohol?

15 Right.

16 Q. Do you have any concerns about this report at all?

18 Just the diagnoses, yeah, since they are accepted in the DSM-S, it should be a little bit

more specific.

oa


P.86

16 Q. Let's keep going. So if we look at NSBME 0085, this is March 6, 2018, and here she's
talking about increasing the dosage of Adderall and stopping the Vivitrol?

20 Yes.

21 Q. Do you see that the medications were changed based on this conversation?

23 Ido,

24 Q. Do you see a medical reason documented for that change?

P.87

1 I don't,

2 Q. In your practice, if a patient came to you and said, I'd like to increase my medications,
what would you do?

5 I would ask why do you feel that's necessary. What symptoms would you like to target.

Just those basics,

8 Q. And would you note those in the records?

9 Yes,

10 Q. If they didn't have an answer, what would you do?

12 I probably would take a look at the overall picture and see if it's necessary or not. Try to
figure out a reason they're requesting such a change in medications.

16 Q. Normally, you would say it's not the standard of care to change medications without
documenting it, it sounds like?

19 Right,

20 Q. And there needs to be a justification for the change?
22 Correct.

P.88

13 Q. If we move on to April 3rd, 2018, and this is NSBME 0090. * * * Here, it sounds like
she's having some anxiety and other symptoms. Do you see changes of medications for the patient
in this visit?

22 The Trazodone was increased back up to 150 milligrams.

24 Q. And that was from 50, it looks like?

25 A hundred.

P.89

i] Q. No. A hundred. Is that a significant increase?

3 Not in my opinion, no.

4 Q. Would you expect, though, to see that documented, the reason for changing it?
6 Yes.

7 Q. Do you see that documented here?

8 No.

9 Q. I suppose we see the patient's complaints, but is that enough to document a change, just
the patient's?

i 1 just don't see it mentioning anything about sleep.

13 Q. And that's what you would expect to see to increase that?

15 Right.

20 Q. What do you see happened with regards to her medication on this visit?
22 Her Valium was increased to 7.5 milligrams twice per day.

24 Q. Okay. 7.5?

25 Yes.



P.90

1 Q. And is there documentation for the reasons for that?
3 It did state that she had been taking this same dose at 5 milligrams twice a day for over 10
years,

5 Q. So it was increased, but it hadn't been that before?

7 She had been on 5 milligrams twice a day for, it appears, over 10 years, and so now, since
she was having more anxiety symptoms, I can only imagine that's why it was increased.

11 Q. But you're guessing?

12 Yes,

P.91

16 Q. I don't see a change in the multi-axial on Page 0107. Would that be necessary?

18 Given her diagnoses, I probably wouldn't have her on an anti-depressant, but I guess we
could change her current episode would be depressed instead of manic.

21 Q. So it sounds like then the medications aren't probably what you would want prescribed?
23 Correct, but --

24 Q. But at least there's justification for them?

25 There is, but the only thing would be to change the diagnosis since she's not in a current
manic episode.

P.92

3 Q. Okay. That hasn't been updated. What would you expect it to say?
5 Bipolar disorder or update it with current episode depressed.

P.93

19 I think the issue here was that she had a seizure while she was in the hospital, and | feel
because there are certain medications that could decrease the

seizure threshold that she has been prescribed later on.

24 Q. If we look at NSBME 0130, it says no history of seizures there?

P.94

1 Right.

2 Q. But that's not accurate anymore?
3 Correct.

P.97

19 Q. I would then look at NSBME 0138. This is a visit dated October 19, 2018. I'm sorry.
Can we go back to the previous visit, 0135, and I note on that page, the neurologic still shows no
history of seizures. Do you see that?

23 Yes.

24 Q. So that’s still not accurate?

25 Correct.

P.98

1 Q. Would you say that might be a use ofa template just not being updated?

3 Yes. Another pitfall of templates.
25 Q. Do you see on Page 0140 under neurologic, still has no history of seizures?

P.99
2 Correct.


15 Q. Ido note on NSBME 0150 the same error of no seizures is there?
17 Correct.

P.100
6 Q. So the Valium was removed. But I still note NSBME 0155 still shows no history of

seizures?
8 Correct.
9 Q. And the multi-axial says current episode manic, 0156. Would that be right?
il Probably not after a suicide attempt,
12 Q. So was there any documentation regarding the Valium other than, I guess, the chief
complaints?
14 No.
1s Q. Are there any other concerns that you have of this visit?
17 So the Adderall was changed to 5 milligrams twice a day. I'm not concerned about that,
but there's still no diagnosis of ADHD.
20 Q. So you were concerned with the continued use of Adderall without medical
justification?
22 ~—-Right.
P.101
3 ... Looks like the next visit we have with Dr. Okeke is NSBME 0172, and it’s a visit
dated January 25th, 2019. What happened with the patient at this visit?
7 She was not doing too well as far as mood goes and struggling with some sleep issues.
9 Q. Sounds like she might also have been anxious or tense?
i Right. Anxiety.
12 Q. What happened with her treatment plan?
13 Belsomra was started for sleep, and Fanapt was given as samples to see if that would help
with psychosis or mood stability.
16 Q. Did you feel like this was adequate justification for those changes?
18 A. For the Balsomra, yes.
19 Q. Did you have other concerns?
20 I didn't see any mention of why the Fanapt was chosen.
22 Q. Did you tell us what Fanapt is used for?
23 Fanapt is an anti-psychotic, but it can have Indication to treat bipolar symptoms.
25 Q. What would you expect to see symptom-wise that would justify it?
P.102
2 I would probably want to treat any mood instability, any mood swings, hypomanic,
depression. Just help with mood overall. Because there wasn't mention of mood as much as there
was of anxiety.
P.103
3 Q. And I see a note that says discuss tapering down Valium, but it doesn't look like Valium
was prescribed.
6 Yeah. It wasn't in the current treatment medication ~~
Ml




P.106 °

11 Q. So then the next visit that we have is NSBME 0200, and this is dated April 24, 2019.
And the presenting problem there says client has been distraught since her marriage divorce. This
is the first time that we've seen the patient was married.

17 | Right.

18 Q. I think recently it was a boyfriend breakup?
19 Right.

P.107

5 Q. Okay. NSBME 0202 is the same date, April 24, 2019. This is an adult bio-
psychosocial assessment. Do you have any concerns regarding this report?

10 No. With the diagnoses again, it's not very clear.

12 Q. That's on 02047

13 Yes.

14 Q. And you're saying that's not clear the multi-axial assessment?

16 Yes. It's just with the bipolar disorders kind of contradicting each other.

18 Q. Because it says current episode depressed and current episode manic in the same?
20 Yes.

21 Q. You wouldn't write it that way?

22 I would put a mixed episode or just leave it as a Bipolar Disorder Type 1.

P.108

16 Q. The next visit looks like NSBME 0205, and it was a visit dated May 9, 2019?

18 Yes,

19 ‘What happened with the patient on this day?

20 This was just a therapy note, so there wasn't much mention of what was going on.

22 Q. Okay. I do note, though, if you look under vital signs, there's like in the middle ofa
paragraph, there's symbols that are hard to read. Do you see those?

P.109

1 Yes.

2 Q. So that would be hard to decipher what's going on there?

4 Right.

5 Q. And I see the same assessment for the diagnoses that are conflicting, where it says
manic and depressed?

8 Correct.

Cross Examination of Dr. Chen by Mr. Agwara, Counsel for Dr. Okeke

PIS
1 Q. Okay. Now, moving on. What recommendations would you make to Dr. Okeke going

forward based on what you identified as some of the concerns you had? What would you
recommend that he do different?

5 I guess my main concern was just the documentation and having a clear understanding of
the rationale or medical decision-making. I feel it's important if there's another physician looking
at your notes, it be a little more clear as to why you made changes to the treatment plan.

11 Q. That's your major concem. Any other concerns?




13 1 guess just dealing with the patient population who do have a history of self-injurious
behaviors, suicide attempts, substance abuse, I would really want to see more of a holistic
approach — not holistic, but a whole approach as far as getting therapy on board, looking at AA,
NA for relapse prevention. Just trying to cover all the bases and provide as much support as she
can maintain for recovery, in addition to stabilize her mental health.

22 Q. And that would be a judgment call, correct?


24 Q. Now, would you agree with me that if another physician looked at your records that
they could disagree with some of how you practice ~

P.116

2 Yes, for sure, I'm sure they would,

3 Q. Was there anything that you saw in your review that endangered the patient's life?

5 I guess my main concern is just all the different medications she was taking and maybe not

getting a clear history of the medical prescriptions that she was also on. I know there were times in
that one drug screen, I do remember, | believe it was positive for opiates, so kind of wondering that
whole picture as far as medical treatment and how that plays into her psychiatric care was a
concern.

13 Q. I didn't ask about your concern. My question was whether or not you saw something
that posed a threat to the patient's life that Dr. Okeke did?

16 To answer that, I guess the combination of medications may have posed a threat.

18 Q. Ido recall you stated in your testimony that the list of medications may be a function of
the software, and it maybe listed more medications than the patient was taking?

22 Correct.

23 Q. So with that in mind, I'll ask you the question one more time. Did you see anything
that Dr. Okeke did as a physician that endangered this patient's life? Not your concerns.

P.1M7

2 I'd say no, not from reading the notes, but --

3 Q. Thank you.

4 Again, those concerns I've already listed,

5 Q. Do you know how long Dr. Okeke saw this patient?

7 I believe the first evaluation was back in 2014, So the initial psychiatric evaluation was in
October of 2013. And then I think she lost treatment for a while, and popped back up in July 2014,
and then off and on since then.

12 Q. Is there a reason why you started or limited your review and your testimony today,
starting from 2017?

15 I'm not quite sure.

16 Q. You're not sure of the reason, or you're not sure of what?

18 I'm not sure why everything started after 2017.

20 Q. So that wasn't your decision?

21 No.

P.119

5 Q. You said you see a lot of this with a lot of your colleagues, and you think the people
who do this are wrong, or do you think they're making stuff up? What exactly are you trying to
say?

9 So I guess what I'm saying is, if there isn't much change from visit to visit, I would say
there haven't been any changes. The patient reports to be doing well. No suicidal thoughts, no
homicidal thoughts. I guess in his notes, it did list a lot of review of symptoms that, you know, it




could be better summarized there were no changes, patient is doing well, instead of all these
different symptoms that I don't know were these questions asked or not.

18 Q. So your concern is not with the similarity of the notes on the three different dates, but
with the questions that may or may not have been asked; is that correct?

22 K .

23 Q. Okay. Thank you. Let me ask you this: Is there a recognized industry-wide standard
for sufficiency of justifications for changing prescriptions or increasing or decreasing dosages?

P.120

2 x 4 ir.

4 Q. When is that enough? We went through a lot of records with you, and on many of
them, you actually agreed with Dr. Okeke, but on some of them, you said, well, you didn't think
that the explanations for why a drug was added or removed was sufficient, That's what I'm asking.
Is there a standard for what is considered adequate explanation?

12 I would say with maybe lesser medications that are not controlled substances, it may not be
as important, but given the patient's history and there wasn't a diagnosis of ADHD, and then
Adderall just popped up on her treatment regimen, that was concerning to me.

18 Q. Why was it concerning to you?

19 Just in light of her other diagnoses that were listed without a clear reason to have the
Adderall. It could exacerbate her manic symptoms or anxiety, further worsening her mental state.
23 Q. Would you agree that Adderall is used to treat aggression?

25 Tt can be off-label.

P.121

1 Q. Is it your testimony that you did not see depression as a diagnosis in this patient's — in
the notes that you reviewed?

4 Her main diagnosis was bipolar disorder.

5 Q. I didn't ask about main.

6 A person with bipolar disorder, there is depression, and there are periods of mania or
hypomania.

8 Q. So there was depression, correct?

9 But it isn't standard of care to treat bipolar with Adderall.

11 Q. No. I'm just asking. Did this patient suffer from depression or not?

13 Yes,

14 Q. You already testified that sometimes you can use Adderall to treat depression; is that
correct?

16 It would be off-label use.

17 Q. But acceptable use?

18 With good reason.

19 Q. Js that a yes?

20 With good reason.

P.122
22 Q. Okay. Now, let me ask you this; Is it your testimony that because the records do not

show discussions between Dr. Okeke and the patient that that means there were no such
discussions?

P.123

1 No.
2 Q. Okay. You're just saying the records did not reflect some discussions that you would

have liked to see; is that correct?
5 Yes,




6 Q. Is it your testimony that Dr. Okeke should have run the patient's PMP on every visit?

8 Not every visit. The standard is upon initiation of controlled substance, and I would say
every three months during treatment.

1 Q. And during your review, did you find that that wasn't the case?

13 [found that wasn't the case just because in that report that, I think Kim Friedman had
requested, it didn't look like Dr. Okeke had requested any during the treatment time, but Leould be
mistaken, I just didn't get that information,

P.124

8 Q. Okay. Now, on how many occasions did you note changes without an explanation? I
mean, if you don't have that number, that's fine.

18] I don't have that number, unfortunately, but I had made notes to myself, but there were
definitely, I'd say over 10 times, as a guess.

14 Q. 10 out of how many? Would you say the majority of times?

16 I would say the majority of times where there were changes, there wasn't a rationale,

18 Q. Are you sure?

19 Yes,
20 Q. Okay. Do you want us to review every single one?
22 No.

23 Q. I'm okay if you don't know if it's a majority or not, but if you're stating it's a majority --
25 y vi ¥ , | know there was enough times that it was
confusing for me to understand the process he was using.

P.125

3 Q. Okay. That's fine. Now, is it your testimony in the chief complaint section that the
complaints by the patient are not sufficient explanations for changing prescriptions or reducing the
dosage or increasing it?

7 There were definitely some notes which highlighted the symptoms that she was
complaining of that did warrant medication changes, but not all of them.

P.127

15 Q. What you're saying is you would not have chosen Adderall to treat the depression?
17 Yes, I would not have,

18 Q. And why is that?

19 Because, of course, bipolar is different than major depression, and with her history of
having, I guess, there was an indication there was psychotic symptoms before, the Adderall could
exacerbate that, and also could exacerbate her anxiety symptoms.

Closing Argument by counsel for Dr. Okeke

P.139

22 I will give you this much, that with respect to PMP, my client understands and
acknowledges that he probably did not check as often as he should have, He has made a lot of
changes in his practice, and he has now made that a frequent practice to check PMPs.


Md




P.140

2 As I pointed out in the beginning, in my opening statement, he has taken quite a few CEUs
in terms of recordkeeping and sufficiency of records, And to the extent that some of the records do
not have adequate notes in regards to the reasons to changing dosages, those have all -- well, I
shouldn't say they have been changed because you can't change them in the past, but going
forward, he has adopted new changes, and he's now doing a lot more to explain reasons why he
would change the dosage or the prescriptions.

Beyond the testimonial evidence and exhibits referred to therein, Exhibit 14 is a
collection of articles printed off and contributed to the IC’s case by Dr. Chen. While the
hearing officer discussed those articles with Dr. Chen on the record, (see below), she did
not testify substantively about any of those articles. The hearing officer has reviewed
them. In general, the articles are not helpful. Had Dr. Chen testified about them, some of
the articles may have been quite helpful, especially to a part of this case that is somewhat
troubling to the undersigned hearing officer. In particular, the MSDP Standardized
Documentation Training Manual’s Psychiatry/Medication Progress Note may have been
significant to this case. It appears to give a sound example of best practices (and thus
possibly an applicable standard of care) for note-taking for psychiatrists. However, like a
couple of the other documents! included in Exhibit 14, Dr. Chen did not testify as to

whether such practices are the standard of care applicable in this case.

FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS OF THE HEARING OFFICER

1, Malpractice,
The Complaint on file alleges that Dr. Okeke malpracticed by committing the acts

alleged in paragraphs 2-14 thereof. Specifically, the malpractice is alleged to have
occurred when Dr. Okeke: failed to justify the use, increase and decrease, and then
subsequent increases in dosages of Patient A’s medication; prescribed a combination of

controlled substances without documenting the medical justification or rationale; failed to

' The Flow Chart For The Initial Prescribing Controlled Substances Under AB474 document, and the article
entitled Standard-of-Care Testimony: Best Practices or Reasonable Care? both could have been helpful
evidence had Dr. Chen testified as to whether those items define the standard of care applicable to Dr. Okeke
in light of the allegations in the Complaint.

1s



review the PMP report prior to, during, and after the encounters with Patient A; failed to
assess Patient A’s concurrent medication interactions; failed to assess Patient A for
possible drug abuse, drug diversion or any other non-medical related activity; failed to
assess Patient A for possible drug screens on a consistent basis, and; failed to diligently
monitor potential medication interactions in Patient A’s changing treatment plans.

The legal definition of malpractice generally applicable here is the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily
used under similar circumstances. NAC 630.040. That definition requires evidence
proving what a physician using the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used
under circumstances similar to those under which Dr. Okeke was treating Patient A would
have implemented, thus showing that Dr. Okeke failed to use such reasonable care, skill, or
knowledge. Put most simply, the IC’s evidence must prove that Dr. Okeke’s treatment of
Patient A fell below the standard of care. It follows that proving just what the standard of
care is must be a necessity in order to show that Dr. Okeke fell below that standard.

“Standard of care” was mentioned five times in Dr. Chen’s testimony. Each of
those is reviewed here.

The first mention is at page 47 of the transcript. Counsel asked Dr. Chen for her
“overall opinion” of Dr. Okeke’s treatment of Patient A. Dr. Chen stated that she:

felt there were some areas that fell below the standard of care, especially
regarding the thoroughness of documentation. When I was reviewing it,
I did have some difficulty, kind of, deciphering his medical decision-making.

Counsel then asked “When you say documentation, what do you mean by that? Dr.
Chen responded that:

Just from looking at the progress notes, it was really hard for me to get a
good grasp of her symptomatology. It was difficult to see how severe her
symptoms were at what specific time, There were medication changes that
T couldn't decipher the justification for. And I just felt those areas were

lacking.
This testimony is helpful and certainly important in determining facts which are

critical to this case. Although it does not define the applicable standard of care.


The second mention of standard of care is at page 68 of the transcript. The
following is the series of counsel’s questions and Dr. Chen's answers at that point in

presentation of the evidence, which begins on page 67 of the transcript:


Q. So did you see evidence in your review of the records in this case that Dr.
Okeke did the random urine drug screens that you were talking about?

A, I believe there were instances where I did see a urine drug screen, yes.
Q. Was it as frequent as you think it should have been?

A, That's up to the provider. I would say once a year at the very least would be
sufficient.

Q. Did you see that in this case then?

A. It's hard for me to recall the specifics as far as when they were ordered and how
frequent. I know there was at least one that I saw.

Q. At least one?
A. Uh-huh,

Q. What about your opinion regarding his ordering a baseline or routine lab work
for the patient?

A. So in my opinion, I feel like baseline labs are very helpful just to kind of
establish what the baseline is, especially when they are taking medications that can
have metabolic effects like the anti-psychotics and to rule out any other medical
issues that could contribute to symptoms, like a thyroid issue or other hormonal
imbalance. So it's just a good practice to get lab work done when you can to
establish a baseline.

Q. How often would you order lab work?

A. In my practice, I try to get lab work done during the initial evaluation. If the
patient says they've seen a primary care, I'll try to request records, so I have it in my
own chart,

Q. Did you see evidence then of Dr. Okeke ordering baseline or routine lab
work or conditioning?

A. I do not recall seeing any lab results in the chart,

Q. So your opinion, would that be failure to follow the standard of care?



A. I would say yes.

Q. I think we've talked about the multiple drugs that the patient was taking. Do
those have interactions with each other?

A. They definitely can.

Q. Did you have concern regarding Dr. Okeke's monitoring of the potential
medical interactions for these drugs?

A. I did, just because of the dosages and how it can be, I guess, cumulative, the
effects of sedation and whatnot and some cognitive dulling.

Q. When you say dosages, what do you mean? High dosages?

A. High dosages and just the different medications that have that same side effects.
So it's kind of a synergistic effect, I would say.

Q. You mean two medicines with the same kind of effect, like a sedating effect?
A. True. Yes.
Q. And you would want to note that?

A. Yes. Or at least discuss it with the patient, It seems like she had a high
tolerance to some of these medications, but there might be counteracting others, or
you know, causing different effects canceling each other out.

Q. Did you see discussion about that in Dr. Okeke's records regarding this patient?

A. No.
This testimony is critical in that Dr. Chen answers the direct question of whether

Dr. Okeke failed to follow the standard of care. However, some of Dr. Chen’s surrounding
testimony can leave questions as to whether she is testifying as to standard of care, or
simply her own opinion of best practices, which can differ in that Dr. Chen's practices may
be higher than the standard of care. And again, the standard of care is not set out here.

The third mention of standard of care came up at page 72 of the transcript in a legal
argument between counsel about whether hearsay evidence was admissible, This mention

of the standard did not address any substantive matter in the case.


The next/fourth mention of the standard occurs at page 73 and arose in the context
of Dr. Chen explaining how she compiled the list of documents the IC presented as Exhibit

14. Her testimony was as follows:



As with my peer-review, obviously, J kind of have my own opinion, and
then I look for things on the internet that could support my opinion. So
that's where these came from. There are guidelines as well for my own
research as to what other people may be doing as far as standard of care.

HEARING OFFICER WOODMAN: How does anyone know that what
you are relying on here -- if you're doing an internet search, how do we
know what you're using and relying on is reliable, is credible, and that it
should be a part of the basis of your opinion?

THE WITNESS: I definitely see where you're coming from. Like J said,

1 formulate my own opinion first, and then I try to find supporting evidence
to put into my review as the Board wants to review materials. So they can
see my train of thought and see how others can review these same issues,

I guess.

HEARING OFFICER WOODMAN: In the list, which I see 10 articles
listed, correct?

THE WITNESS: There are certain articles that I was able to print out.
I guess, for sake of paper, there are these practice guidelines. 2 and 3
are exhaustive --

HEARING OFFICER WOODMAN: I understand that, but there's a list
of 10 items that you used for your peer-reviewed materials?

THE WITNESS: Yes.

HEARING OFFICER WOODMAN: As the doctor that your CV tells us
that you are, is anything -- are any of these items in 1 through 10, did you
have any concerns with the reliability or credibility of anything listed
there in 1 through 10 in your professional medical opinion?

THE WITNESS: I mean, / believe there are some that I would really take
with a grain of salt, but I think it's helpful. I didn't really understand the
legal process myself, so I thought it was responsible af me to look at how
the law and medicine integrate together.

HEARING OFFICER WOODMAN: So anything in that list, | to 10, that

you have any concerns with, if any of that was being reviewed by the Board
itself, the state Board?



THE WITNESS: I don't think I would have any concerns.

This conversation gives some pause to the hearing officer. As mentioned, while
Dr. Chen’s CV proves she is a very accomplished medical professional, and her
appearance and testimony at the hearing did not detract therefrom, it is not clear whether
some of her testimony was based on her own perception of best practices, as opposed to
the actual standard of care. And again, from her demeanor at the hearing, this hearing
officer would not be surprised in the slightest to discover that Dr. Chen’s opinions on best
practices may well exceed the standard, In fairness to Dr. Okeke, the standard of care
against which he is measured must be clear. And if Dr. Chen is holding Dr. Okeke to her
own best practices standards, and those are higher than the actual standard of care due a
patient from her physician, then we are using the wrong yardstick to measure.

The fifth and final mention of the standard appears at page 121 of the transcript.
This was Dr. Chen’s testimony on cross-examination by Dr. Okeke’s counsel (beginning at

page 119):

Q. Okay. Thank you. Let me ask you this: Is there a recognized industry-wide
standard for sufficiency of justifications for changing prescriptions or increasing
or decreasing dosages?

A. There's not a standard, but I believe it's good practice to spell out your
thinking process.

Q. When is that enough? We went through a lot of records with you, and on
many of them, you actually agreed with Dr. Okeke, but on some of them, you
said, well, you didn't think that the explanations for why a drug was added or
removed was sufficient. That's what I'm asking. Is there a standard for what
is considered adequate explanation?

A. I would say with maybe lesser medications that are not controlled substances,
it may not be as important, but given the patient's history and there wasn't a
diagnosis of ADHD, and then Adderall just popped up on her treatment regimen,
that was concerning to me.

Q. Why was it concerning to you?




A. Just in light of her other diagnoses that were listed without a clear reason to
have the Adderall. It could exacerbate her manic symptoms or anxiety, further
worsening her mental state.

Q. Would you agree that Adderall is used to treat aggression?

A. It can be off-label.

Q. Is it your testimony that you did not see depression as a diagnosis in this
patient's -- in the notes that you reviewed?

A. Her main diagnosis was bipolar disorder.
Q. I didn't ask about main,

A. A person with bipolar disorder, there is depression, and there are periods
of mania or hypomania.

Q. So there was depression, correct?

A. But it isn't standard of care to treat bipolar with Adderall.

Q. No. I'm just asking. Did this patient suffer from depression or not?
A. Yes.

Q. You already testified that sometimes you can use Adderall to treat
depression; is that correct?

A. It would be off-label use.
Q. But acceptable use?
A. With good reason.

Q. Is that a yes?
A. With good reason.

Here we have the IC’s expert witness testifying that: i) there is no standard of care

with regard to “justifications for changing prescriptions or increasing or decreasing

dosages” (thus nullifying the allegations in subparagraph “1)” of paragraph 18 of the




Complaint); ii) it is not standard of care to treat bipolar with Adderall, and; iii) with good
reason, Adderall could be used to treat depression, off label.

This testimonial exchange highlights the hearing officer's concerns about some of
the malpractice allegations in this case. While a generic legal definition of what the
standard of care is can be found in the NAC, a psychiatry-specific definition of that
standard is not within the record of this case. The hearing officer is left not knowing just
what is “the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances” to those of Dr. Okeke. However, there are other indications that are
helpful, as set out below.

We do know from Dr. Chen that; she felt generally that Dr. Okeke fell below the
standard of care regarding the thoroughness of documentation; she did not recall seeing
any lab results in the chart, nor did she see evidence of Dr. Okeke ordering baseline or
routine lab work or conditioning, and accordingly she “would say” that Dr. Okeke fell
below the standard in this regard, and; treating bipolar with Adderall is not within the
standard of care. But to be clear, according to the record, the hearing officer must either
take Dr. Chen at her word on what she said did not meet the standard, or must find that,
because the standard was not established, Dr. Okeke cannot be found to have breached it.

All of this confusion aside, and as alluded to above, there is yet another legal hurdle
for Dr. Okeke to overcome in the question of whether he committed malpractice. The
PMP is mandated to be reviewed regularly. Dr. Okeke’s counsel acknowledges that this
was not done.? Because of its import, and the resulting legal requirement to review it on a
continuing basis, the failure to do so must be a failure to use the reasonable care, skill, or
knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances. In this regard, Dr. Okeke did fall

below the standard, and thus did commit malpractice. Hence, this hearing officer finds that

Count I of the Complaint is proven.

2 See Factual Evidence above, where Dr. Okeke’s counsel stated that:

1 will give you this much, that with respect to PMP, my client understands and
acknowledges that he probably did not check as often as he should have. He has made a lot of
changes in his practice, and he has now made that a frequent practice to check PMPs.




2. re to Mai Proper Medical Records.
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) states that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and

complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment, and care of a patient is
grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee. While there are a number of
questions in the evidence of this case as to if and how Dr. Okeke malpracticed, the record

is quite clear that he did not keep adequate records. His counsel stated:

As I pointed out in the beginning, in my opening statement, he has taken quite a few CEUs
in terms of recordkeeping and sufficiency of records. And to the extent that some of the
records do not have adequate notes in regards to the reasons to changing dosages, those
have all -- well, I shouldn't say they have been changed because you can’t change them in
the past, but going forward, he has adopted new changes, and he's now doing a lot more to
explain reasons why he would change the dosage or the prescriptions.

Accordingly, it cannot reasonably be challenged that Dr. Okeke failed with regard
to his recordkeeping. The fact that he is working to improve his records practice is no
doubt an important precipitate of this proceeding. Count IT of the Complaint is thus
proven,

Finally, with regard to credibility of witnesses, this HO found the IC’s two
witnesses to be completely credible at all times. While Dr. Chen will — assuming she
continues to testify as an expert — leam more about the process of establishing a foundation
of and definition for the applicable standard, her presentation left the hearing officer no
question as to whether she was credible, and that she had no inappropriate motive in her
participation in the case. Accordingly, the hearing officer finds no reason to question the

testimony as presented. The IC has thus proven its two Counts alleged in the Complaint.

Respectfully submitted this 16th day of November, 2022.

Charles B. Woodman, Hearing Officer


