9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 21-28177-2
Complaint Against: aa L c- 'D)
JOSE HIRAM ALVAREZ, M.D., JAN 49 9n9°
Respondent. IZVADA STATE BOARD OF
' MEP~ICAL EXAIAINERS

FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and Ian J.
Cumings, J.D., Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe
that Jose Hiram Alvarez, M.D. (Respondent) violated the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical
Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a Medical Doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 10765). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on December 5, 2003. Respondent’s specialty is listed as
Obstetrics/Gynecology on the Board’s website. Cosmetic surgery is not a specialty therein
obstetrics and gynecology

2. Patient A, Patient B and Patient C’s true identities are not disclosed herein to protect
their privacy but was disclosed in the Patient Designation, which was served upon Respondent along
with a copy of the original Complaint. The Patient Designations have not been altered.

3. On August 20, 2018, Patient A presented and consented for Respondent to perform

the following procedures: suction-assisted liposuction of the abdomen, flank, and back;

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Aury Nagy, M.D.,
and Mr. M. Neil Duxbury.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

& @® bd


abdominoplasty pannus removal, and a fat transfer to the buttock. Respondent used tumescent
anesthesia for all the procedures and acted as Surgeon and Anesthesiologist during Patient A’s
surgery. Within the patient’s history and physical examinations, Patient A’s medical records lacked
the standard measurements and details typically noted in cosmetic plastic surgery evaluations.

4. On August 8, 2018, Patient B presented and consented for Respondent to perform the
following procedures: suction-assisted liposuction of the abdomen, flank, and back; abdominoplasty
pannus removal, and a fat transfer to the buttock. Respondent used tumescent anesthesia for all the
procedures and acted as Surgeon and Anesthesiologist for Patient B’s care. As with Patient A.,
within Patient B’s medical records lacked the standard measurements and details typically noted in
cosmetic plastic surgery evaluations.

5. On January 8, 2018, Patient C presented and consented for Respondent to perform
the following procedures: suction-assisted liposuction of the abdomen, flank and_ back;
abdominoplasty pannus removal, and a fat transfer to the buttock. Respondent used tumescent
anesthesia for all the procedures and acted as surgeon and anesthesiologist for Patient C’s care.
Patient C’s medical record lacked the standard measurements and details typically noted in cosmetic
plastic surgery evaluations.

6. Respondent is not certified by a specialty board of the American Board of Medical
Specialties, as required by NRS 630.160, to perform plastic surgery. Cosmetic surgery is a
subspecialty of plastic surgery. Respondent’s training consisted of workshops, and he received
certificates of completion in cosmetic surgery. Performing abdominoplasties, brachioplasties, breast
augmentations, and fat transfer procedures, require these procedures to be performed under general
anesthesia with a board-certified Anesthesiologist or Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist
(CRNA) present (Emphasis added). Liposuction procedures are generally acceptable with the use of
tumescent anesthesia; however, the other procedures performed by Respondent required the use of a
general anesthesia with a board-certified Anesthesiologist or CRNA present. Neither were present
during the surgeries on Patients A, B or C by Respondent. Respondent has no documentation
regarding his training and/or experience for performing in brachioplasties, abdominoplasties or fat

transfer to the buttocks.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


COUNTS I-01

NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

7. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

10. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
he provided medical services to Patients A, B and C, because Respondent lacked the requisite
training in plastic surgery to single-handedly perform liposuctions, breast augmentations,
brachioplasties, fat transfers, and abdominoplasties, and, because Respondent improperly used
tumescent anesthesia when performing abdominoplasties, brachioplasties, breast augmentations,
and fat transfer procedures.

11. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNTS IV-VI

NRS 630.306(1)(e) (Practice Beyond Scope of License)

12. _ All the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

13. NRS 630.306(1)(e) provides that practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope
permitted by law or performing services which the Licensee knows or has reason to know that he or
she is not competent to perform, or which are beyond the scope of his or her training is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


14. As demonstrated by, but not limited to the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
specialty is listed as Obstetrics/Gynecology under NRS 630.160. Respondent is not a board-certified
Plastic Surgeon and has only received instruction in cosmetic surgery from workshops and therefore
lacks the requisite training in plastic and cosmetic surgery to perform liposuctions, breast
augmentations, brachioplasties, fat transfers, and abdominoplasties.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNTS VII-IX

NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records)

16. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

17. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

18. Respondent failed to maintain accurate and complete medical records relating to
the diagnosis, treatment and care of Patient A, B and C by failing to document his actions and
noting the standard measurements and details typically noted in cosmetic plastic surgery evaluations
when he treated Patients A, B and C.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been

a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent,

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this Yl day of January, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

AN | -
» a

DON D K. WHITE, J.D.
Senior/Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Amended Complaint against the Respondent herein; that
he has read the foregoing Amended Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the
course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations
and charges in the foregoing Amended Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

DATED this {7 day of January, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

