Yana unr Oo ND


i

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 21-42975-1
Against: FILED
IPPEI TAKAGI, M.D.
_— MAR 0 4 2022
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDI! EXAMINERS
By:
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Brandee Mooneyhan, J.D., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Ippei Takagi, M.D. (Respondent), a physician licensed in Nevada, assisted
by his attorney, Edward J. Lemons, Esq., of the law firm of Lemons, Grundy & Eisenberg, hereby
enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor who at all times relevant to this matter was licensed
by the Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of|
the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice
medicine in Nevada. His license was originally issued on October 17, 2014 (License No. 15590)
and is currently in inactive status.

2. On October 19, 2021, in Case No. 21-42975-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(1), Engaging in Conduct Intended to
Deceive (Count 1); two (2) violations of NRS 630.301(7), Engaging in Conduct that Violates the

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another

state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.



Trust of a Patient and Exploits the Relationship with the Patient for Financial or Other Personal
Gain (Counts II and IV); and one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count III). By
reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in
NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the
allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if
the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.


Ya war

2 &


Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1 Jurisdiction, Respondent was at all times relevant to the Complaint a physician
licensed to practice medicine in Nevada and is subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set forth
in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.
‘1



4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent!
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.

Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count III, Malpractice, a violation of
NRS 630.301(4).
b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation

and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of three thousand three hundred ninety-
one dollars and seventy-eight cents ($3,391.78).

C Respondent shall pay a fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000) within sixty
(60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. Respondent asserts that it is his intention not to return to the practice of
medicine in Nevada. Respondent’s Nevada medical license, License No. 15590, is currently in an
inactive status. Respondent agrees not to renew his license in the next renewal cycle and agrees to
let it expire on June 30, 2023. Respondent also agrees not to request a change of status to “active”
at any time from now through June 30, 2023. On July 1, 2023, Respondent’s license will be


mo So ws


deemed expired, and Respondent agrees not to request a reinstatement of his license during the
reinstatement period, July 1, 2023, through June 30, 2025. If Respondent
reapplies for licensure after June 30, 2025, in addition to satisfying all requirements of licensure in
place under Nevada law at the time of his reapplication, Respondent will be required to (1)
undergo an evaluation to determine his fitness to practice medicine, at his own expense, as well as
prove his competence to practice medicine to the Board at that time, as requested by the Board;
and (2) appear at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board for review and consideration of his
reapplication.

e. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

f. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

g. The remaining counts of the Complaint (Counts I, IJ, and IV) and any other
claims against Respondent arising from the Board’s currently pending investigative files shall be
dismissed with prejudice. Specifically, this Agreement resolves Board investigative files
with respect to Respondent.”

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against

any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,

2 This Agreement applies only to Respondent, and has no effect on the claims arising from these
investigative files against other Board licensees. Additionally, this Agreement does not apply to any complaints that
post-date the final acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement; any such future complaint will be processed
as normal and may subject Respondent to possible future disciplinary action, if warranted.




or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any

such member absent evidence of bad faith.

Ya Ukr OD

2 &


10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

‘1
M11
‘1
M11
M11

we




Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this [4Htday of February, 2022. DATED this _I4! day of February, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE LEMONS, GRUNDY & EISENBERG
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL

EXAMINERS
By: Brande. antefhiar— By:
BRANDEE MOONEYHAN, 4D. :
Deputy General Counsel 6005 Plumas St., 3rd Floor
9600 Gateway Drive Reno, NV 89519
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (775) 786-6868
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: ejl@lge.net
Email: mooneyhanb@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this _14th_ day of February, 2022.

By: Le {s! Ippei Takagi

IPPEI TAKAGI, M.D.,
Nevada License No. 15590
Respondent

1 ORDER

2 || IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 21-42975-1)
3 |lwas approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the
4 || 4th day of March, 2022.

5 DATED this 4th day of March, 2022.

6 NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

8 By: if) OZR) a>
VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Board President

cal Examiners
N


Nevada State Board of Me


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



