(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-19851-1
Against:
KAREN MARIE TIERNEY, M.D.,

Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Ian J. Cumings, J.D., Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Karen Marie Tierney, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1, Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 9648). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on November 30, 2000.

2. On June 22, 2018, the California State Medical Board filed a formal Complaint
against Respondent for multiple allegations related to the treatment and care of five (5) patients,
concerening prescribing and record keeping issues.

3. On February 3, 2020, the California State Medical Board adopted a Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order (Order) against Respondent. See Exhibit 1. This Order issued
a stayed revocation of Dr. Tierney’s license and placed her on probation for three (3) years with

conditions including maintaining thorough records for all controlled substances and allowing the

1 The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Aury Nagy, M.D., and
Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF (Ret.).


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


California State Medical Board access to these records at all times during business hours. This
condition was to be kept in place for the entire probationary period. She was to enroll in a course
for best practices for prescribing controlled substances and a separate approved course on medical
recordkeeping within sixty (60) days of entry of the order. She was also prohibited from
supervising physician assistants and advanced nurse practitioners.
COUNTI
NRS 630.301(3) - Disciplinary Action by Another Licensing Board

4, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

5. NRS 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state ... [o]r the surrender of the license or discontinuing the
practice of medicine while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

6. Respondent was disciplined by the California State Medical Board when
Respondent’s medical license was subject to a stayed revocation pending specific conditions.

7. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada
Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent,

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this

case as outlined in NRS 622.400;


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and
6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.
DATED this Zé day of April, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

IANJ. CUMINGS, J.D.

Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: Icumings@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE __)

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this QW ay of April, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: fr

BRET W#FREY, M.D.
Chairmfin of the Investigative Committee


EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation )

Against: )
Karen Marie Tierney, M.D. ) Case No. 800-2015-015032


Physician's and Surgeon's )

Certificate No. G42421 )


Respondent )


DECISION

The.attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby adopted as the
Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs,
State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on March 4, 2020.

IT ISSO ORDERED: February 3, 2020.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

hn
Mot Oar
Kristina D. Lawson, J.D., Chair
Panel B

DGUS2 iRev 61-2010)



XAVIER BECERRA ;
Attorney General of California
Mary CAIN-SIMON
Supervising Deputy Attomey General
DAVIDCARR -
Deputy Attorney General
State Bar No, 131672
455 Golden Gate Avenue, Suite 11000
San Francisco, CA 94102-7004
Telephone: (415) 510-3380
Facsimile: (415) 703-5480
Altorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No, 800-2015-015032
KAREN MARIE TIERNEY, M.D. OAH No. 2019061214

| STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND

530 RAMONA AVE
MONTEREY , CA 93940 DISCIPLINARY ORDER

Physician's and Surgeon's
Certificate No. G 42421

Respondent,

In the interest of a prompt and speedy settlement of this matter, consistent with the public
“interest and the responsibility of the Medical Board of California of the Department of Consumer
Affairs, the parties hereby agree to the following Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order
which will be submitted to the Board for approval and adoption as the final disposition of the
Accusation,

Ml

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)



PARTIES

1. Kimberly Kirchmeyer was the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California
(Board) at the time of filing of this action action and brought this action as Complainant solely in
her official capacity. Christine J. Lally, Deputy Director of the Board, assumes responsibility as
Complainant solely in her professional capacity and is represented in this matter by Xavier
Becerra, Attorney General of the State of California, by David Carr, Deputy Attorney General.

2. Karen Marie Tierney, M.D., (Respondent) is represented in this proceeding by
attorney Thomas E. Still, of Hinshaw, Marsh, Still & Hinshaw, 12901 Saratoga Avenue, Saratoga
CA 95070-9998.

3, On July 3, 1980, the Board issued Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 42421
to Respondent. The Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate was in full force and effect at all times
2020, unless renewed. . .

JURISDICTION

Accusation No. 800-2015-015032 was filed before the Board and is currently pending
against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily required documents were properly
served on Respondent on June 22, 2019. Respondent timely filed her Notice of Defense
contesting the Accusation.

4. .Acopy of Accusation No, 800-2015-015032 is attached as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the
fully discussed with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order.

6. Respondent is fully aware of her legal rights in this matter, including the right to a

hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to confront and cross-examine

‘the witnesses against her; the right to present evidence and to testify on her own behalf; the right


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)

bem



to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
documents; the right to reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision; and all other
rights accorded by the California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws.

7, Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up each and
every right set forth above.

CULPABILITY

8. ° Respondent understands and agrees that the charges and allegations in Accusation
No. 800-2015-015032, if proven at a hearing, constitute cause for imposing discipline upon her
Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate.

9. For the purpose of resolving the Accusation without the expense and uncertainty of
further proceedings, Respondent does not contest that, at an administrative hearing, Complainant
could establish a prima facie case with respect to the allegations contained in Accusation No.
800-2015-015032, and that she has thereby subjected her license to disciplinary action.
Respondent hereby aives up her right to contest those charges.

10. Respondent agrees that if she ever petitions for early termination or modification of
probation, or if the Board ever petitions for revocation of probation, all of the charges and
admitted by Respondent for purposes of that proceeding or any other licensing proceeding
involving Respondent in the State of California.

11. Respondent agrees that her Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate is subject to
discipline and she agrees to be bound by the Board's probationary terms as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below.

, RESERVATION

12, The admissions made by Respondent herein are only for the purposes of this
proceeding, or any other proceedings in which the Medical Board of California or other
professional licensing agency is involved, and shall not be admissible in any other criminal or
civil proceeding.

Mf

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)



CONTINGENCY

13. - This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of California.
Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical
Board of California may communicate directly with the Board regarding this stipulation and
settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or her counsel. By signing the
stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that she may not withdraw her agreement or seek
to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails
to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary
Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal
action between the parties, and the Board shall not be disqualified from further action by having
considered this matter. ;

14, The parties understand and agree that Portable Document Format (PDF) and facsimile
copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including PDF and facsimile
signatures thereto, shall have the same force and effect as the originals.

15. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree that
the Board may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the following
Disciplinary Order:

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 42421 issued '
to Respondent Karen Marie Tiemey, M.D., is revoked: However, the revocation is stayed and
Respondent is placed on probation for three (3) years on the following terms and conditions.

1. REVOCATION - MULTIPLE CAUSES. Certificate No. G 42421 issued to
Respondent Karen Marie Tierney, M.D. is revoked pursuant to determination of Issues (e.g. I, II;
and III), separately and for all of them.

' 2. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES - MAINTAIN RECORDS AND ACCESS TO
RECORDS AND INVENTORIES. Respondent shall maintain a record of all controlled
substances ordered, prescribed, dispensed, administered, or possessed by Respondent, and any
recommendation or approval which enables a patient or patient’s primary caregiver to possess or


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)



cultivate marijuana for the personal medical purposes of the patient within the meaning of Health
and Safety Code section 11362.5, during probation, showing all of the following: 1) the name and
address of the patient; 2) the date; 3) the character and quantity of controlled substances involved;
and 4)-the indications and diagnosis for which the controlled substances were furnished.

Respondent shall keep these records in a separate file or ledger, in chronological order. All
records and any inventories of controlled substances shall be available for immediate inspection
and copying on the premises by the Board or its designee at all times during business hours and
shall be retained for the entire term of probation.

3. PRESCRIBING PRACTICES COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective
date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in prescribing practices approved in
advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider
with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of the course
not later than six (6) months after Respondent’s initial enrollment. Respondent shall successfully
complete any other component of the course within one (1) year of enrollment. The prescribing
practices course shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing
Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A prescribing practices course taken after the acts that gave rise to’ the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole diseretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

4. MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective

date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in medical record keeping approved in

advance by the Board or its designee. Respondent shall provide the approved course provider


, STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)



with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem pertinent.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of the course
not later than six (6) months after Respondent’s initial enrollment. Respondent shall successfully
complete any other component of the course within one (1) year of enrollment. The medical
record keeping course shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the Continuing
Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. .

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

’ Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

STANDARD CONDITIONS OF PROBATION

5. NOTIFICATION, Within seven (7) days of the effective date of this Decision, the

Respondent shall provide a true copy of this Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the

Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to
Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of medicine,
including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief
Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to
Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board or its designee within 15
calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or insurance carrier.

6. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS AND ADVANCED PRACTICE

NURSES. During probation, Respondent is prohibited from supervising physician assistants and
advanced practice nurses.

7. OBEY ALL LAWS. Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all rules

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)



governing the practice of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered criminal probation, payments, and other orders.

8. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has been
compliance with all the conditions of probation.

Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end

of the preceding quarter.

9. GENERAL PROBATION REQUIREMENTS.

Compliance with Probation Unit

Respondent shall comply with the Board’s probation unit.

Address Changes

Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of Respondent’s business and
residence addresses, email address (if available), and telephone number. Changes of such
addresses shall be immediately communicated in writing to the Board or its designee. Under no
circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business
and Professions Code section 2021(b).

Place of Practice

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s or patient’s place
of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled nursing facility or other similar licensed
facility.

License Renewal

Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California physician’s and surgeon’s.
license.

Travel or Residence Outside California

Respondent shall immediately inform the Board or its designee, in writing, of travel to any
areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last, more than thirty
(30) calendar days.

In the event Respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to practice,


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)




Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of
departure and return.

10. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD OR ITS DESIGNEE. Respondent shall be
available in person upon request for interviews either at Respondent’s place of business or at the
probation unit office, with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

11. NON-PRACTICE WHILE ON PROBATION. Respondent shall notify the Board or
its designee in writing within 15 calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than
30 calendar days and within 15 calendar days of Respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice is
defined as any period of time Respondent is not practicing medicine as defined in Business and
Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at least 40 hours in a calendar month in direct
patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board. If
Respondent resides in California and is considered to be in non-practice, Respondent shall
comply with all terms and conditions of probation, All time spent in an intensive training
program which has been approved by the Board or its designee shall not be considered non-
practice and does not relieve Respondent from complying with all the terms and conditions of

probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United States or Federal jurisdiction while

on probation with the medical licensing authority of that state or jurisdiction shall not be

considered non-practice. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a

period of non-practice.

In the event Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation exceeds 18 calendar
months, Respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State Medical Boards’s Special
Purpose Examination, or, at the Board’s discretion, a clinical competence assessment program
that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current version of the Board’s “Manual of Model’
Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two (2) years.

Periods of non-practice will not apply .to the reduction of the probationary term.

Periods of non-practice for a Respondent residing outside of California will relieve

Respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-201 5-015032)







exception of this condition arid the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws;
General Probation Requirements; and Quarterly Declarations.

12. COMPLETION OF PROBATION. Respondent shall comply with all financial
obligations (e.g., restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the
completion of probation, Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent’s certificate shall
be fully restored.

13, VIOLATION OF PROBATION. Failure to fully comply with any term or
condition of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke
probation and carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation or Petition to
Revoke Probation or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation,
the Board-shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final and the period of probation .
shall be extended until the matter is final.

14. LICENSE SURRENDER. Following the effective date of this Decision, if
Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons or'is otherwise unable:to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request to surrender her license, The
Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent's request and to exercise its discretion in
determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate
and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, Respondent
shall within 15 calendar days deliver Respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its
designee and Respondent shall no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject
to the terms and conditions of probation. If Respondent re-applies for a medical license, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

15. PROBATION MONITORING COSTS. Respondent shall pay the costs associated
with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which
may be adjusted on an annual basis: Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of

California.and delivered to the Board or its designee'no later than January 31 of each calendar

. year,


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-2015-015032)

Lod


ACCEPTANCE

| have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
discussed it with my attorney, Thomas E. Still. | understand the stipulation and the effect it will ©
have on my Physician's and Surgeon's Certificate. [ enter into this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and agree to be bound by the

Decision and Order of the Medical Board of Californja.

‘| KAREN MARIE TIERNKY, M.D.
; Respondent

T have read and fully discussed with Respondent Karen Marie Tierney, M.D. the terms and
conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order.
I approve its form and content.

pare: tft PTAA IM
i 4 THOMAS E. STILL
Attorney for Respondent

ENDORSEMENT
The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California.

DATED: Lda: $7 1O/P Respectfully submitted,

XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of California
Mary CaINn-SIMON

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

AVID CARR

Deputy Attorney General
Altorneys for Complainant

SF20 18200580


STIPULATED SETTLEMENT (800-201 5-0 15032)

