Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-20775-1

Against:

HAMID SHAKERI, M.D., AUG -

IPYAD J a fb pe
Respondent. NE vs eR A TA ee

By:

FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for
the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Hamid Shakeri, M.D., (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its First Amended
Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 11161). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on September 27, 2004.

2. Respondent served under the title of “Medical Director” of Aesthetics Med Spa
(AMS) in or about 2016, located at 6295 Sharlands Avenue, Suite 1, Reno, Nevada 89523.

3. At all relevant times alleged herein, Aesthetics Med Spa, with a Nevada business
license listing of Aesthetics Medical Training LLC (Aesthetics Med Spa) (AMS), was a Nevada
limited liability company with its principal place of business located at 6295 Sharlands Avenue,
Suite 1, Reno, Nevada 89523.


! The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time the filing of this
Complaint was approved, was composed of Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., Mr. M. Neil Duxbury and

Victor M. Muro, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


4. Jasmine Wells (Wells) was AMS’s noncommercial Registered Agent, and sole
Officer and Managing Member.

5. AMS, through its managing member Wells, advertised itself as a “medical spa”
“specializing” in medical procedures, products and treatments including in-part, laser hair
removal, Botox, dermal filler injections, Latisse, medical skin peels, as well as non-medical

aesthetic and cosmetological services.

6. Respondent was an independent contractor of AMS.
7. Respondent was not a manager, agent, officer or employee of AMS.
8. Respondent had no ownership or member interest in AMS, nor did he have

contractual authority to manage the affairs of AMS.

9. Neither Wells, any of AMS’s employees or other independent contractors were
employed by Respondent during the time Respondent served as Medical Director of AMS.

10. At all times relevant to the facts alleged herein, neither Wells, nor any other
member, manager, employee or independent contractor of AMS, was licensed by any Nevada
professional licensing board in the State of Nevada pursuant to chapters 630 to 637, inclusive, 639
or 640 of the NRS. In fact, only one (1) registered nurse was listed as an employee of the
business.

11. No person in any way affiliated with or employed by AMS held a Nevada medical
license issued by the Board during the time Respondent served under the title Medical Director,
other than Respondent himself.

12. Wells was at all relevant times a Nevada licensed “Esthetician” (License # A-3199)
and listed under the name of “Jasbinder Wells.”

13. There is no indication that Respondent was ever personally present at AMS during
his time serving under the title Medical Director. Due to the absence of the sole medical
practitioner on the premises of AMS, no procedures could have been directly supervised by
Respondent, making all invasive tasks performed at AMS the very definition of the unlicensed

practice of medicine in Nevada. Respondent never personally saw the patients to establish an


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


official doctor/patient relationship to provide him the authority to prescribe medications, such as
Botox, to be carried out by a registered nurse or a medical assistant.

14. | AMS’s medical records show no indication that Respondent supervised, contacted
or consulted Wells or anyone else at AMS in-person, or by any other means, during Respondent’s
service as Medical Director.

15. |NRS 630.0129 defines a “medical assistant” as: 1) a person who (a) performs
clinical tasks under the supervision of a physician or physician assistant, and (b) does not hold a
license, certificate or registration issued by a professional licensing or regulatory board in this
State to perform such clinical tasks; and 2) the term does not include a person who performs only
administrative, clerical, executive or other nonclinical tasks.

COUNTI
NRS 630.306(1)(r) - Failure to Adequately Supervise Medical Assistants

16. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

17. NRS 630.306(1)(r) provides that a failure to adequately supervise a medical
assistant pursuant to the regulations of the Board is an act that constitutes grounds for initiating
disciplinary action.

18. By the conduct described herein, Respondent failed to adequately supervise, or
supervise in any way, Wells, and and all other employees, as well as any and all independent
contractors of AMS in their performance of medical tasks during his time as Medical Director.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT I
NRS 630.305(1)(e) - Aiding in the Practice of Medicine by Unlicensed Person(s)

20. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

21. NRS 630.305(1)(e) provides that the aiding, assisting, employing or advising,

directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person(s) to engage in the practice of medicine contrary to

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


the provisions of NRS 630 or the regulations of the Board is an act, among others, that constitutes
grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

22. By the conduct described herein, to the extent that Respondent did not delegate
medical tasks to Wells and/or AMS’s agents and employees as medical assistants, or to the extent
that their actions were not authorized by Respondent, Respondent nonetheless aided, assisted and
advised these unlicensed persons, both directly and indirectly, in their engaging in the practice of
medicine contrary to the provisions of NRS 630 or the regulations of the Board.

23. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine the sanctions it will impose if it finds Respondent
violated the Medical Practice Act;

4, That the Board make, issue and serve upon the Respondent, in writing, its findings
of fact, conclusions of law and order, in writing which shall include the sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in
these premises.

DATED this # re day of August, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NE A STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS


DONALD K. WHITE, J.D.

Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF CLARK )

Victor M. Muro, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 7 ay of August, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

UL) M ner ir

VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Chairman of the Investigative Committee

By:

