OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

25,


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-29083-1

Against: FILED

JEFFREY PATRICK NG, M.D., JUN - 2 2022
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. MEDIAL EXAMINERS
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel and attorney for
the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Jeffrey Patrick Ng, M.D. (Respondent) violated
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating
the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 10928). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on May 18, 2004.

2. Patient A? was a thirty-eight (38) year-old male at the time of the events at issue.

3. June 10, 2014, was the first time Patient A was seen by Respondent at CareMore
for an annual exam and a physical exam required by his employer. At this visit Patient A had noted
on the Patient History Form that he had a family history of heart attack, stroke and diabetes.
Respondent’s notes indicate Patient A felt well and had no complaints and that Patient A’s blood

pressure was 132/90, borderline high, and he was on medication for asthma and/or allergies.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Aury Nagy, M.D., and

Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF (Ret.).
2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect his privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.


g
A
a
2a
Ea
32a
Sst
35>
aa

Nevada State Board of Me

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



4. At this visit Patient A reported having pneumonia for three (3) months, in January
through March 2014, but still experienced being short of breath. There is a note within
Respondent’s medical records indicating that Patient A had “Difficulty Breathing on Exertion.” He
also noted that Patient A had increased anxiety. Respondent ordered several tests during this visit
including an EKG, blood work, chest x-ray and other diagnostic tests. Patient A was educated to
exercise and stay healthy. The test results received after this visit could be categorized as normal
other than an elevated cholesterol total of 207. The EKG was performed in office and the results
stated in pertinent part, “sinus bradycardia, possible anterior infarct, age undetermined,” and
“Abnormal ECG.”

5. Respondent’s notes, after reviewing the test results, indicated no abnormalities.
However, the EKG results did contain abnormalities and Respondent misinterpreted it. Due to
Respondent’s misinterpretation, he did not treat Patient A or refer him to a proper care provider for
these abnormalities.

6. On August 1, 2014, Patient A visited Respondent to follow up on the results of his
lab tests. Patient A had normal blood pressure measuring 120/74, but complained of heartburn and
regurgitation for the past three (3) months combined with burning epigastric pain. Respondent
prescribed Patient A Nexium, an oral medication for treatment of his peptic esophagitis, and told
Patient A to follow-up in two (2) weeks from the time of the visit. Patient A did not follow-up as
requested by Respondent for this digestion related issue.

7. Patient A next saw Respondent on August 20, 2014, complaining of cold
symptoms, specifically a sore throat, cough, and nasal congestion for the previous four (4) days.
Patient A was also still experiencing difficulty breathing on exertion. The medical record for this
visit also notes Dysphagia was present. Patient A was diagnosed with Strep pharyngitis and given
a prescription for Levofloxacin for seven (7) days. It was requested Patient A follow-up with
Respondent in two (2) weeks.

8. Patient A did not see Respondent again until May 1, 2015, and this was for another
physical exam for work. Routine lab tests were ordered, notes did not indicate complaints of

shortness of breath or chest pain, and his blood pressure was normal.


a
a

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Mec

joa)
a
Zz
fe}
Oo
z
Q
Zz
Q
C)
Q
x
B
io
3°
ia}
i

9. Patient A again saw Respondent on June 5, 2015, and complained of shortness of
breath and anxiety when exercising. Lung congestion was also noted. His blood pressure was
normal, and Respondent prescribed Symbicort for asthma.

10. Patient A’s final visit with Respondent was September 17, 2015. He complained of:
knee pain and also wanted to see a lung specialist. Patient A also complained of burning chest
pain and painful back issues while exercising. Respondent referred him to a pulmonologist and
ordered a chest X-ray. Respondent read the results of the X-ray as normal and Patient A’s blood
pressure was elevated at 132/98.

1. On October 21, 2015, Patient A visited a gastroenterologist complaining of acid
reflux, chest pain and burning, and shortness of breath. The gastroenterologist documented that
Patient A had these symptoms for approximately one (1) year, which worsened when consuming
certain foods, with some relief from over-the-counter (OTC) Prilosec. Patient A was diagnosed
with gastroesophageal reflux disease, given samples of Nexium and recommended to undergo an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), and was directed to follow-up after the EGD was
completed.

12. Patient A was transported by ambulance and admitted to Spring Valley Hospital the
morning of November |, 2015, unresponsive and in cardio-pulmonary arrest. He was pronounced
dead one (1) hour after losing his pulses. Patient A was thirty-nine (39) years old at the time of his
death.

COUNTI
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

13. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

14. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds for initiating disciplinary
action against a licensee.

15. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar

circumstances.”


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


16. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
he did not recognize the significance of Patient A’s abnormal EKG and misinterpreted his
symptoms as asthma and _ gastrointestinal related instead of possible signs of coronary
arthrosclerosis and an enlarged heart.

17. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IT
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) - Violation of Standards of Practice Established by Regulation

18. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

19. Violation of a standard of practice adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary
action pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2).

20. NAC 630.210 requires a physician to “seek consultation with another provider of
health care in doubtful or difficult cases whenever it appears that consultation may enhance the
quality of medical services.”

21. Respondent failed to timely seek consultation with regard to Patient A’s medical
condition(s) and symptoms from in or about June 2014 until in or about September 2015.
Respondent should have consulted with another health care provider to address the doubtfulness
and difficulty of the diagnosis of Patient A’s medical condition(s). A timely consultation may have
enhanced the quality of medical services provided to Patient A and may have saved his life.

22. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT It

NRS 630.306(1)(g) - Continual Failure to Exercise Skill or Diligence
23. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.


4 of7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway
Reno, Nevada


24. Continual failure by the Respondent to exercise the skill or diligence or use the
methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by physicians in good standing
practicing in the same specialty or field is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee
pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(g).

25. Respondent continually failed to exercise skill or diligence ordinarily exercised by
his repeated inability to appreciate the symptoms of cardiopulmonary dysfunction, and instead
diagnosed Patient A with gastrointestinal reflux disease and asthma. Patient A did not respond
positively to the medications prescribed for asthma and gastrointestinal reflux disease and
continued to experience reflux and new onset back pain. Even though Patient A did not have
positive results with the medications and symptoms were increasing, Respondent did not evaluate
for, or recognize, the symptoms as potential cardiac dysfunction even though a diagnostic test
(EKG) had provided a clear indication that there was a potential cardiopulmonary dysfunction.
Respondent saw Patient A an additional five (5) times after the EKG results without referring him
to a cardiologist, providing him appropriate medication for cardiac dysfunction, nor sending the
patient for more detailed diagnostic testing.

20. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;



Nevada State Board of Medi

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



5.

That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,

conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and

6.

premises.

That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

DATED this Z7“day of June, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Di D K. WHITE, J.D.
Senior Deputy General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, NV 89521

Tel: (775) 688-2559

Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


J
Pa
a

Nevada State Board of Medi

wQ
2)
vA
oO
joa)
Zz
a
°o
QQ
B
ica
a
ic
ir

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
1 Ss.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 2nd day of June, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

BRET W. F

Chairman & the Investigative Committee

7of7



CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
1 hereby certify that I am employed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 3rd day of June, 2022, I served a file-stamped copy of the foregoing COMPLAINT,

via USPS Certified Mail and regular mail, to the following parties:

JEFRREY PATRICK NG, M.D.
c/o Sean M., Kelly, Esq.
8329 West Sunset Road, Suite 260

Las Vegas, NV 89113
Tracking No.: 9171 9690 0935 0254 7602 69

Attorney for Respondent

DATED this é ¥ & day of June, 2022.

MERCEDE ENTES
Legal Assistant
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

