OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

w



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-38073-1

Against: FI LE D
JEFFREY DAVID GROSS, M.D., SEP 16 2022

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MED; EXAMINERS
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Jeffrey David Gross, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attorney, Kathleen T. Janssen, Esq., of the Law Offices of Cook & Kelesis, LTD.,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:'

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on February 1, 2011 (License No. 13807).

2, On April 12, 2022, in Case No. 22-38073-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. The Complaint alleges
one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(1) — Conviction of a Felony Relating to the Practice of|
Medicine (Count J), one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(9) — Disreputable Conduct (Count II), one
(1) violation NRS 630.301(11)(g) — Conviction of an Offense Involving Moral Turpitude (Count

Tan agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


Ill), and one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(1) — Engaging in Conduct Which is Intended to
Deceive (Count IV). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board
as provided in NRS 630.352. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has
reviewed and understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent
counsel concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

3. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the
preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses
and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if]
the decision is adverse to him.

4. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

w&

an ns


further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the terms and
conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and _Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

ew on

a

yp wn rnranu


acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement. Notably, the events underlying the formal Complaint and this
subsequent agreement do not indicate any patient harm occurred.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. For the purposes of this Settlement Agreement, Respondent admits that
sufficient evidence exists to prove Count II, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(9) — Disreputable
Conduct and Count II, one (1) violation NRS 630.301(11)(g) — Conviction of an Offense
Involving Moral Turpitude and agrees that the Board may enter a finding that he violated Counts
Tl and III.

b. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada shall be
suspended with the suspension to be immediately stayed. Respondent’s license shall be subject to
suspension upon a term of probation for a period of forty-eight (48) months from the date of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement (Probationary Period). Respondent
must complete the following terms and conditions within the Probationary Period and demonstrate
compliance to the good faith satisfaction of the Board before or within forty-eight (48) months,
including but not limited to, payment in full of costs and fees imposed, and at that time he may
petition the Board to lift the probationary status of his license. If Respondent fails to demonstrate

compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or otherwise violates the terms of


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



this Agreement or the Medical Practice Act, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing on
immediate suspension of his license, which hearing will be duly noticed.

c. Respondent shall successfully complete all requirements as established by
the United States District Court Central District of California in Case No. 8:18-cr-00014-JLS and
the rules and regulations of the United States Probation & Pretrial Services Office and the Second
Amended General Order 20-04. Respondent agrees he shall submit to the Board any and all
documentation (of which he has the legal ability to obtain) regarding the terms, requirements and
compliance of his supervised release, including but not limited to, reports from the United States
Probation & Pretrial Services Office. Respondent agrees that if he fails to complete his supervised
release in his criminal matter or is dishonorably discharged from his supervised release, the IC
shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada
pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

d. Respondent shall submit to and pass all five (5) sections of the Ethics and
Boundaries Assessment Services (EBAS) examination within one hundred twenty (120) days of|
the Board’s approval of this agreement, which examination shall be paid for at the expense of the
Respondent.

e. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being seven hundred two dollars and
seventy-three cents ($702.73).

f. Respondent shall pay a fine of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) for Count II and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for Count III, for a
total fine of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to be paid in five (5) equal payments of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The first payment is due on or before December 1, 2022, with each
successive payment due on or before the first of each month thereafter, and must be paid in full on
or before April 1, 2023, upon the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


g. Respondent shall perform twenty (20) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME), related to the subject matter of ethics, in addition to the required CMEs for
licensure. These CME hours must be completed within six (6) months of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement.

h. Respondent shall perform three hundred (300) hours of community service
without compensation pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the attached community
service proposal. The 300 hours must be completed within the probationary period of 48 months
upon the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

i, This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

j. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

k. Counts I and IV, and any other claims arising from the Board’s
corresponding investigative case file, shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of|
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

eo on

a

15,

this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect _of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

YA Ue w




jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this /~ day of Payest 2022. DATED this It day of S202.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE COOK & KELESIS, LTD.

NEVADA ae BOARD OF MEDICAL

K. WHITE, J.D. Yo piteen TU ee ESQ.
Seale tSeonty General Counsel 5175S. 9th Street
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89101
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 737-7702
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: kjanssen@bckltd.com
Email: dwhite@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 22-38073-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 16th day of
September, 2022.
DATED this 16th day of September, 2022.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

py: (2M Medrrs
VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Board President

COMMUNITY SERVICE PROPOSAL
(required hours: 240)

Jeffrey D. Gross, M.D.
NSBME Case No. 22-38073-1

The following is a non-exhaustive list of the types of community service that may be
provided by Dr. Gross to satisfy the 300 hours of community service requirement which is
referenced at paragraph 5.h. of page 6 to the Settlement Agreement in Case No, 22-38073-1:

1. Provide free lecture to physician groups and other health care specialists regarding spine
surgery or general surgery matters.

2. Provide surgical or non-surgical clinical patient care to indigent patients throughout the
State of Nevada, at no cost.

3. Assist rural hospitals to develop new spine surgery or general surgery-based services.

4. Provide free public seminars to citizen groups on spine surgery or general surgery related
topics.

5. Provide free lectures on spine surgery or general surgical issues to hospitals, clinics,

and/or nursing home staff and/or patients.

6. Attend local health fairs, public television or radio shows, telethons, or other similar
gathering, events, or shows and provide free lectures, discussions, question and answer sessions,
or facilitate discussions on spine surgery, general surgery, or other medical related topics.

7. Provide no cost “case review” for local physicians who are treating indigent patients.

8. Provide surgical and non-surgical patient care to indigent patients in the rural areas of
Nevada.

9. Provide second opinions and assistance, without compensation, to other physicians

providing free services or services at reduced fees.

10. Provide surgical and non-surgical patient care, without compensation, in disaster relief /
emergency situations in Nevada.

11. Volunteering to provide medical/surgical related services with religious/charitable
organizations in Nevada.

Page 1 of 2
12. Volunteering for a nonprofit of his choice.

NOTICE OF INTENT TO PROVIDE AND PROOF OF COMPLIANCE
WITH COMMUNITY SERVICE REQUIREMENTS

Except as otherwise provided herein, Dr. Gross agrees to submit written notification, via email,
to Johnna LaRue, Compliance Officer, for the NSBME of any community service that he desires
to perform to complete his 300 hours of community service. Ms. LaRue then has three (3)
calendar days to provide any written comment or concerns, via email, to Dr. Gross pertaining to
the proposed community service. If Dr. Gross does not receive any such written comments or
concerns from Ms. LaRue, Dr. Gross may proceed to perform the proposed community service.

With regards to the community service referenced in paragraphs 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 above,
prior written notification and pre-approval of the same is not required where time constraints are
an issue or prohibit the same, including, but not limited to, emergency care being provided by
Dr. Gross.

With regards to the community service referenced in paragraph 3 (“Assist rural hospitals to
develop new spine surgery or general surgery-based services”), Dr. Gross agrees to submit
written notification, via email, to Ms. LaRue of the proposed itinerary/schedule with regards to
providing rural hospitals to develop new spine surgery or general surgery based services.

Proof of compliance of any community service required under this community service proposal
shall be submitted in writing (can be scanned and emailed) directly to Ms. LaRue of the
NSBME. Such written proof shall contain the following information: a description of what the
community service consisted of; identify any organization, group, or individual that was the
recipient of the community service; identify when and where the community service was
performed; and describe the number of hours provided.

Page 2 of 2
