OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-36323-1
Against: FILED
TODD LINCOLN JACKSON, M.D. JUN
Respondent. 10 2022
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
By:
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, J.D., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for
the IC, and Todd Lincoln Jackson, M.D. (Respondent), a physician with an expired license in
Nevada, assisted by his attorney Michelle R. Schwarz, Esq., of the law firm Hall, Jaffe & Clayton,
LLP, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor with an expired license that was issued by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act).? His license was originally
issued on January 11, 2010 (License No. 13385).

2. On February 28, 2022, in Case No. 22-36323-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) count of violation of NRS_630.301(4), Malpractice.

‘an agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of these matters and
any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

2 Pursuant to NRS 630.298, the expiration of a license by operation of law or by order or decision of the
Board or a court, or the voluntary surrender of a license by a licensee, does not deprive the Board of jurisdiction to
proceed with any investigation of, or action or disciplinary proceeding against, the licensee or to render a decision
suspending or revoking the license.


9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521


3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding these administrative matters, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in these administrative matters as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

hs Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BoB Be ow
eo N & Oo


B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and _ Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.
3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms and
conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection with
these administrative matters. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice
Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges
that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges that

Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



aes

S Ess

332e

bes
i

aid



Zz

15,

subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts that if these matters were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the count/claim alleged in the Complaint,
but for the purposes of resolving these matters and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the
presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this
Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits Count I, violation of NRS 630.301(4), as alleged in the
Complaint.

b. Respondent shall pay a fine in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this
Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, in the amount of two thousand three hundred ninety-two
dollars and fifty-six cents ($2,392.56).

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f. Any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative case
file(s), shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to

information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

15,

Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaint at an upcoming Board meeting at the Board’s earliest convenience,
and Respondent hereby waives notice of the same, whether under the United States Constitution,
the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, or otherwise. In the
course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC
may communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to these matters. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and any and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of
Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Beard of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

we we

Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection

efforts available.

DATED this day of APRIL, 2022. DATED this 4g doy of Ape | , 2022

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE HALL, JAFFE & CLAYTON, LLP

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

By:, C RY g By?

AARON BART FRICKE, J.D. MICHELLE R. SCHWARZ, ESQ.
General Counsel 7425 Peak Drive
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89128
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 316-4111
Tel: (702) 786-3813 Email: mschwarz@|awhic.com,
Email: afticke@medboard,nv.goy_ Attorney for Respondent
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
DATED this +0 day or AY 2022.
» AU bath fag
* TODD LINCOLN JACKSON, M36,
Nevada License (expired) No. 13385
Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Beard of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Neveda 89521

a a

a

Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection
efforts available,
DATED this__ day of 2022. DATED this g day of, Aa ~ (2022
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE HALL, JAFFE & CLAYTON, LLP
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS LL
By:. (ie ce.
AARON BART FRICKE, J.D. MICHELLE R. SCHWARZ, ESQ.
General Counsel 7425 Peak Drive
9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 89128
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 316-4111
Tel: (702) 786-3813 Email: mschwarz@lawhjc.com
Email: africke@medboard.nv.gov Attorney for Respondent
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
DATED this LO day of MAY 2022.
* TODD LINCOLN JACKSON, M6,
Nevada License (expired) No. 13385
Respondent

1 ORDER

2 |} IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 22-36323-1)
3 |] was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 10th day of
4 || June, 2022.

5 DATED this 10th day of June, 2022.

6 NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

8 sy: (JM MermD
VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Board President


Examiners
S

Nevada State

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

