9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-5972-1

Against: FI LE D

KAREN FRANCES ARCOTTA, M.D., FEB 14 2022

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDJEAL EXAMINERS 1
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, J.D., General Counsel, and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Karen Frances Arcotta, M.D., (Respondent) violated the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relevant to this Complaint a medical doctor holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 4896). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on July 9, 1983.

2. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Respondent was employed as a licensed
medical doctor at Western State Pain Institute (“Western”), at 3910 Pecos-McCleod Intersection,
Las Vegas, Nevada, 89121.

3. On or about April 8, 2020, at Western, Respondent did knowingly and intentionally
distribute a Schedule II controlled substance, Oxycodone, without a legitimate medical purpose
and outside the usual course of professional practice, in violation of Title 21, United States Code,

Sections 841(a)(1), (b)(I)(C), and Code of Federal Regulations, Section 1306.04.

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Chairman, Chowdury H.
Ahsan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, and Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF (Ret.), Public Member.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


4. On or about June 24, 2020, at Western, Respondent did knowingly and
intentionally distribute a Schedule II controlled substance, Oxycodone, without a legitimate
medical purpose and outside the usual course of professional practice, in violation of Title 21,
United States Code, Sections 841(a)(I) and (b)(I)(C), and Code of Federal Regulations,
Section 1306.04.

5. On April 21, 2021, Respondent surrendered her DEA Certificate of Registration
No. FA2275673 to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration by executing a DEA Form 104,
entitled “Surrender for Cause” (DEA Surrender for Cause).

6. On or about April 22, 2021, Nevada State Board of Pharmacy (“Pharmacy Board”)
staff served Respondent with notice that her DEA Surrender for Cause of Registration
No. FA2275673 operated as an immediate suspension of her Nevada Pharmacy Board Certificate
of Registration Nos. CS20750 and PD0042 | pursuant to NRS 639.2107.

7. On or about June 22, 2021, in the United States District Court, District of Nevada,
in Case No. 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK, Respondent pled guilty to a two-count Criminal
Information, which charged Respondent with two counts of Distribution of a Controlled Substance
(Oxycodone), in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), (b)(I)(C) (Counts One and Two).

8. Pursuant to a Plea Agreement Under Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(A) and (B) filed on
or about June 22, 2021 (hereinafter, the “Plea Agreement”), a true and correct copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and incorporated herein by this reference, and pursuant to an
Arraignment & Plea proceeding held in the U.S. District Court for the State of Nevada, in
Criminal Case No. 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK, entitled “U.S.A. v. Karen Arcotta.” (hereinafter, the
“Federal Case”), Respondent knowingly and voluntarily pleaded guilty to two (2) counts of
Distribution of a Controlled Substance, in violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C),
respectively, as alleged in the Criminal Information filed in the Federal Case the same day.

9. Pursuant to 18 USC 3559(a)(3), violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C), as
alleged in Counts One and Two of the Criminal, constitute Class C felonies.

10. Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, Respondent admitted and declared under penalty

of perjury that the facts set forth below are true and correct:


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive



a. On April 8, 2020, a confidential human source (“CHS-2”) conducted a
consensually monitored and recorded appointment with Respondent, who was then acting within
the course of her employment at Western. CHS 2 checked in at the front desk and paid five
hundred dollars ($500.00) in cash to the receptionist. An unknown female employee took CHS-2
to an exam room where she explained that Western did not accept insurance. After about an hour,
Respondent walked in, asked some medical background questions, and learned from CHS-2 that
they were experiencing lower back and knee pain. Respondent then carried out some physical
exam procedures for about three (3) minutes. Respondent then asked if CHS-2 had received any
medical imaging and stated that an MRI would be needed. CHS-2 gave Respondent an x-ray of a
generic right knee that law enforcement had given CHS-2 prior to the appointment. The x-ray
showed no obvious indicators of degeneration or damage, only normal wear for a person of
CHS-2’s age and gender: the x-ray did not support the prescribing of an opioid drug to treat severe
pain. Respondent examined the x-ray, offered no assessment of what it showed, and explained
i) that new patients at Western typically received a two-week supply of opioid medication; ii) that
they then received two additional weeks of opioid medication, and iii) that they thereafter received
monthly opioid prescriptions. At the conclusion of the appointment, Respondent prescribed 60
tablets of Oxycodone 10mg, a Schedule II controlled substance, to CHS-2.

b. On June 24, 2020, another confidential human source (“CHS-1’) conducted
a consensually monitored and recorded appointment with Respondent, who was then acting within
the course of her employment at Western. CHS-1 was taken to an exam room, where an unknown
female employee asked why CHS-1 had not been to the clinic since January 2020. CHS-1 replied
that another employee had said, on their last visit, that they would not prescribe or help CHS-1
anymore. The female employee told CHS-1 that they would need to see a new practitioner at
Western, and that they may have to “start over” on pain medications. CHS-1 was thereafter seen
by Respondent, who confirmed that CHS-I had not been to Western since January 2020.
Respondent asked: “So what have you done for the past five months that you haven’t been in
here?” CHS-1 said: “For pain meds? I had to find my own.” Respondent asked: “How did you

find your own, did you buy them on the street?” CHS-1 replied: “People, yeah ... just friends and


(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


family and friends of friends or whatever.” Respondent stated: “I wouldn’t even know where to
begin to know how to find Oxycodone,” and asked if CHS-1 was able to buy enough for “four-a-
day.” CHS | said no. Respondent then noted that because CHS-1 was previously on Oxycodone
15mg while seeing another Western employee, the dosage could not be increased yet, but that it
would be increased next month. At the conclusion of the appointment, Respondent prescribed 120
tablets of Oxycodone 15mg, a Schedule II controlled substance, to CHS-1.

c. Respondent knowingly distributed Oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled
substance, on April 8, 2020, and June 24, 2020, outside the usual course of professional practice
and not for a legitimate medical purpose, each in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), (b)(I)(C).

d. During her employment at Western, Respondent, along with Frances
McCrary (an unlicensed non-physician and the sole owner of Western), and PA Gary Manley, a
physician assistant holding a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No.
PA1209), knowingly and intentionally conspired and agreed together and with each other, to
possess with intent to distribute, or to distribute, controlled substances, such distributions being
outside the usual course of professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose. In
furtherance of this conspiracy, Respondent, and her co-conspirators unlawfully distributed
Oxycodone to twenty (20) patients who lived outside Nevada in exchange for cash; distributed
Oxycodone to patients whom the co-conspirators knew were reselling the prescriptions to third
parties; and declined to dismiss from treatment certain patients who they knew to be reselling their
Western-prescribed controlled substances.

e. The total net weight of the Oxycodone that Respondent prescribed on
April 8, 2020, and June 24, 2020, is 2.4 grams. However, Respondent’s distributions at Western
involved between 10 KG and 20 KG of converted drug weight.

11. Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, Respondent also admitted that she is, in fact and
under the law, guilty of the crimes charged, and that she acknowledges that if she elected to go to
trial instead of pleading guilty, the United States could prove her guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
Respondent further acknowledges that her admissions and declarations of fact set forth in the Plea

Agreement satisfy every element of the charged offenses.


(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive



12. On or about July 14, 2021, before the Pharmacy Board, in Case No. 21-046-CS-S,
the Pharmacy Board found that Respondent failed to comply with the Federal requirements
pertaining to controlled substances, and committed an act that would render her registration to
dispense controlled substances inconsistent with the public interest, and found that she was
therefore subject to discipline pursuant to NRS 453.236(1), NRS 453.241(1), NRS 639.210(11)
and NRS 453.241(1). The Pharmacy Board ordered that Respondent’s certificates of registration
Nos. CS2 1374 and PD0042 | be revoked pursuant to NRS 453.241 (I)(b) and NRS 639.255(1)(d).

COUNT I
NRS 630.306(1)(c) - Unlawful Distribution of Controlled Substances

13. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

14. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(c), distribution, including administering, dispensing,
or prescribing, of any controlled substance to others except as authorized by law is grounds for
disciplinary action against a licensee.

15. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent, on or
about April 8, 2020, at Western, knowingly, and intentionally distributed a controlled substance,
Oxycodone, outside the usual course of her professional practice and not for a legitimate medical
purpose, in violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1), (b)(I)(C).

16. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II
NRS 630.306(1)(p) - Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct

17. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

18. Engaging in any act that is unsafe or unprofessional conduct in accordance with
regulations adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to
NRS 630.306(1)(p).



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



19. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent, on or
about April 8, 2020, at Western, knowingly, and intentionally dispensed a controlled substance,
Oxycodone, outside the usual course of his professional practice and not for a legitimate medical
purpose.

20.  Respondent’s conduct was unsafe and unprofessional.

21. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT III
NRS 630.301(9) - Disreputable Conduct

22. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

23. Conduct that brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline
pursuant to NRS 630.301(9), including, without limitation, conduct that violates any provision of
a code of ethics adopted by the Board by regulation based on a national code of ethics.

24. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
conduct on or about April 8, 2020, at Western, brings the medical profession into disrepute.

25. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IV
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

26. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

27. — NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

28. | NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

uN


29. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent, on
April 8, 2020, at Western, failed to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances when rendering medical services to patients.

30. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT V
NRS 630.306(1)(c) - Unlawful Distribution of Controlled Substances

31. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

32. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(c), distribution, including administering, dispensing,
or prescribing, of any controlled substance to others except as authorized by law is grounds for
disciplinary action against a licensee.

33. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent, on or
about June 24, 2020, at Western, knowingly, and intentionally distributed a controlled substance,
Oxycodone, outside the usual course of her professional practice and not for a legitimate medical
purpose, in violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1), (b)(I)(C).

34. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT VI
NRS 630.306(1)(p) - Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct

35. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

36. Engaging in any act that is unsafe or unprofessional conduct in accordance with
regulations adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to
NRS 630.306(1)(p).

37. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent, on or
about June 24, 2020, at Western, knowingly, and intentionally dispensed a controlled substance,



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

TT


Oxycodone, outside the usual course of his professional practice and not for a legitimate medical
purpose.

38.  Respondent’s conduct was unsafe and unprofessional.

39. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT VII
NRS 630.301(9) - Disreputable Conduct

40. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

41. Conduct that brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline
pursuant to NRS 630.301(9), including, without limitation, conduct that violates any provision of|
a code of ethics adopted by the Board by regulation based on a national code of ethics.

42. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
conduct on or about June 24, 2020, at Western, brings the medical profession into disrepute.

43. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT VIII
NRS 630.301(4) - Malpractice

44. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

45. — NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

46. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar
circumstances.”

47. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent, on or
about June 24, 2020, at Western, failed to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily

used under similar circumstances when rendering medical services to patients.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



48. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT IX
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) - Violation of Statutes and Regulations of the Pharmacy Board

49. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

50. Respondent is a practitioner as defined by NRS 639.0125(1), as a physician, who
holds a license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada

51. | NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) provides that engaging in conduct that violates a provision
of chapter 639 of NRS, or a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy pursuant thereto,
that is applicable to a licensee who is a practitioner, as defined in NRS 639.0125, is grounds for
initiating discipline against a licensee.

52. Respondent violated NRS 639.210(11), a provision of chapter 639 of NRS that is
applicable to Respondent, who is a practitioner as defined in NRS 639.0125.

53. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT X
NRS 630.306(1)(g) — Continual Failure to Practice Medicine Properly

54. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

55. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(g), the continual failure of a physician to exercise the
skill or diligence or use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by
physicians in good standing practicing in the same specialty or field is grounds for disciplinary
action or denying licensure.

56. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, and by previous
disciplinary actions against Respondent taken by the Board on December 2, 2016, in Case No.
16-5972-1, and November 30, 2012, in Case No. 11-5972-1, and by previous Summary

Suspension of Respondent’s license to practice medicine on September 22, 2011, in Case No. I1-


#8
One
g22
gb
gs

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

nT
15,

5972-1, pursuant to NRS 630.326(1), based on a reasonable determination of the IC that the
health, safety and welfare of the public was at imminent risk of harm, and by repeated, knowing,
willful and criminal acts in violation of the Nevada Medical Practice Act, including malpractice,
violating state and federal laws pertaining to the proper prescription and distribution of controlled
substances, among other misconduct, Respondent has continually failed to exercise the skill and
diligence and use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by physicians in
good standing practicing in her same specialty or field.

57.  Respondent’s conduct, considered in its entirety, is extraordinarily and persistently
unprofessional in character.

58. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in
NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board award fees and costs for the investigation and prosecution of this
case as outlined in NRS 622.400;

5. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and
HL
Mf


ce NO

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

6. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

i. A”
DATED this 1! day of February, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA-$TATLE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: Le
AARON BART FRICKE, J.D.
General Counsel
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, NV 89521
Tel: (702) 486-3813

Email: africke@medboard.nv.gov
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

il of 12

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Bret W. Frey, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 4 day of February, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS




CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that I am employed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and

that on the 14th day of February, 2022, I served a file-stamped copy of the foregoing

COMPLAINT, via USPS Certified Mail, with courtesy copy by email to the following parties:

KAREN FRANCES ARCOTTA, M.D.
1595 Bamboo Bay Dr.
Hendersons, NV 89012

Certified Reciept No.: 9171 9690 0935 0252 5656 68
Respondent

MACE J. YAMPOLSKY, ESQ.
Yampolsky & Margolis, Attorneys at law
625 S. Sixth Street

Las Vegas, NV 89101

Certified Reciept No.: 3171 9690
Attorney for Respondent 0935 0252 5656 51

DATED this {U4 Wry of February, 2022.

e—p

MERCEDES FUENTES
Legal Assistant
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1

MOOG Ges-er-UULU II UTIN KULUISHe YY Feu UUrecred 1 Wye 4 Ur aU


FILED RECEIVED
ENTERED SERVED ON
COUNSEL/PARTIES OF RECORD

CHRISTOPHER CHIOU JUN 22, 2021
Acting United States Attorney
Nevada Bar No. 14853 CLERK US DISTRICT COURT
PETER S. LEVITT DISTRICT OF NEVADA
Assistant United States Attorney 8y,__DePUTY
501 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Suite 1100
Las Vegas, Nevada 89101
Tel: (702) 388-6336
Fax: (702) 388-6418
peter.s.levitt@usdoj.gov
Attorneys for the United States
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, No.
2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK
Plaintiff,
Plea Agreement for Defendant
v. Karen Arcotta Pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P.
IKAREN ARCOTTA, 1(6)(1)(A) and (8)
Defendant.

This plea agreement between Karen Arcotta (“defendant”) and the United States
Attomey’s Office for the District of Nevada (the “USAO”) sets forth the parties’ agreement
regarding the criminal charges referenced herein and the applicable sentences, and fines, in the
above-captioned case. This agreement binds only defendant and the USAO and does not bind
the district court, the U.S. Probation Office, or any other federal, state, local, or foreign
prosecuting, enforcement, administrative, or regulatory authorities. This agreement does not
prohibit the USAO or any agency or third party from seeking any other civil or administrative
remedies, directly or indirectly against defendant or defendant's property.

This agreement becomes effective upon signature by defendant, defendant’s counsel, and
an Assistant United States Attomey.


I, DEFENDANT’S OBLIGATIONS
1. Defendant agrees to:

a. At the earliest opportunity requested by the USAO and provided by the
district court, appear and plead guilty to a two-count Criminal Information in the form attached
to this agreement as Exhibit A, or a substantially similar form, which charges defendant with
Distribution of a Controlled Substance (Oxycodone), in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1),
(b)(1)(C) (Counts 1-2);

b. Stipulate to the facts agreed to in this agreement;

c. Abide by all agreements regarding sentencing contained in this agreement;

d. Not seek to withdraw defendant's guilty pleas once they are entered;

e. Appear for all court appearances, surrender as ordered for service of
sentence, obey all conditions of any bond, and obey any other ongoing court order in this matter;

f. Not commit any federal, state, or local crime;

g. Be truthful at all times with the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Offices
and the Court;

h. Before and after sentencing, upon request by the Court, the USAO, or the
Probation Office, provide accurate and complete financial information, submit sworn
statements, and/or give depositions under oath concerning defendant’s assets and defendant’s
ability to pay. As part of the required disclosure, defendant agrees to provide any and all
financial information and authorizations requested by the Probation Office for preparation of the
Presentence Report. Defendant further agrees that, upon filing of this agreement, the USAO is
authorized to obtain defendant's credit report. Defendant will also complete a financial form
provided by the USAO, to include all supporting documentation, and retum it to the USAO

within three (3) weeks from entry of the plea. Defendant agrees that the district court may enter




any order necessary to effectuate or facilitate disclosure of defendant's financial information; and
i. To facilitate payment of any fine or assessment obtained directly or
indirectly as a result of defendant's crimes. Defendant agrees to voluntarily release funds and
property under defendant’s control or in which defendant has any property interest, before and
after sentencing, to pay any fine identified in this agreement, agreed to by the parties, or ordered
by the Court.
I. THE USAO’S OBLIGATIONS

2. The USAO agrees to:

a. Stipulate to facts agreed to in this agreement;
b. Abide by all agreements regarding sentencing contained in this agreement;
c. At sentencing, provided that defendant demonstrates an acceptance of

responsibility for the offenses up to and including the time of sentencing, recommend a two-level
reduction in the applicable sentencing guidelines offense level, pursuant to USSG § 3E1.1, and
move for an additional one-level reduction if available under that section;

d. At sentencing, move to dismiss the remaining counts of the indictment as
against defendant. Defendant agrees, however, that the district court may consider any dismissed
charges in determining the applicable sentencing guidelines range, the propriety and extent of
any departure from that range, and the sentence to be imposed; and

e. Not bring any additional charges against defendant arising out of the
investigation in the District of Nevada which culminated in this agreement and based on
conduct known to the USAO. However, the USAO reserves the right to prosecute defendant for
(a) any crime of violence as defined by 18 U.S.C. § 16; and (b) any criminal tax violations
(including conspiracy to commit such violations chargeable under 18 U.S.C. § 371). Defendant

agrees that the district court at sentencing may consider any uncharged conduct in determining



the applicable sentencing guidelines range, the propriety and extent of any departure from that
range, and the sentence to be imposed after consideration of the sentencing guidelines and all
other relevant factors under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a).
Il. ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSES
3. Counts 1-2: The elements of Distribution of a Controlled Substance under 21

U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), (6)(1)(C) are as follows:

First: The defendant knowingly distributed oxycodone, a schedule I controlled
substance;
Second: The defendant knew that it was oxycodone, or some other federally

controlled substance; and
Third: The defendant distributed the controlled substance outside the usual course
of professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose.
See Ninth Circuit Model Criminal Jury Instruction 9.18 (2010 ed.).
IV. CONSEQUENCES OF CONVICTION
Maximum Statutory Penalties:

a. Defendant understands that the statutory maximum sentence the district


court can impose for each violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), (6)(1)(C), as charged in Counts 1
and 2 is: 20 years imprisonment; a five-year period of supervised release; a fine of $1,000,000;
and a mandatory special assessment of $100 per count.

b. Defendant understands, therefore, that the total maximum sentence for all
offenses to which defendant is pleading guilty is: 40 years imprisonment; a ten-year period of
supervised release; a fine of $2,000,000; and a mandatory special assessment of $200.

5. Parole Abolished: Defendant acknowledges that defendant's prison sentence

cannot be shortened by carly release on parole because parole has been abolished.






6. Supervised Release: Defendant understands that supervised release is a period of
time following imprisonment during which defendant will be subject to various restrictions and
requirements. Defendant understands that if defendant violates one or more of the conditions of
any supervised release imposed, defendant may be retuned to prison for all or part of the term of
supervised release authorized by statute for the offenses that resulted in the term of supervised
release, which could result in defendant serving a total term of imprisonment greater than the
statutory maximum stated above.

7. Factors under 18 U.S.C. § 3553: Defendant understands that the district court
must consider the factors set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) in determining defendant’s sentence.
However, the statutory maximum sentence limit the district court's discretion in determining
defendant’s sentence,

8. Potential Collateral Consequences of Conviction: Defendant understands that, by
pleading guilty, defendant may be giving up valuable government benefits and valuable civic
tights, such as the right to vote, the right to possess a firearm, the right to hold office, and the
right to serve on a jury. Defendant understands that once the district court accepts defendant's
guilty pleas, it will be a federal felony for defendant to possess a firearm or ammunition.
Defendant understands that the conviction in this case may also subject defendant to various
other collateral consequences, including but not limited to revocation of probation, parole, or
supervised release in another case and suspension or revocation of a professional license.
Defendant understands that unanticipated collateral consequences will not serve as grounds to
withdraw defendant's guilty pleas.

9. Potential Removal/Deportation Consequences of Conviction: Defendant
understands that, if defendant is not a United States citizen, the felony conviction in this case

may subject defendant to removal, also known as deportation, which may, under some




circumstances, be mandatory; denial of citizenship; and denial of admission to the United States
in the future. The district court cannot advise defendant fully regarding the immigration
consequences of the felony conviction in this case, but defendant's attorney has advised him
about the deportation risks of his guilty plea. Defendant understands that unexpected
immigration consequences will not serve as grounds to withdraw defendant's guilty pleas.
V. FACTUAL BASIS

10. Defendant admits that defendant is, in fact, guilty of the offenses to which
defendant is agreeing to plead guilty. Defendant acknowledges that if defendant elected to go to
trial instead of pleading guilty, the USAO could prove defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. Defendant further acknowledges that defendant’s admissions and declarations of fact set
forth below satisfy every element of the charged offenses. Defendant waives any potential future
claim that the facts defendant admitted below are insufficient to satisfy the elements of the
charged offenses. Defendant admits and declares under penalty of perjury that the facts set forth
below are true and correct:

a. In 2020, defendant was employed as a licensed medical doctor at Western
State Pain Institute (“Western”), at 3910 Pecos-McCleod Intersection, Suite D100, Las Vegas,
Nevada, 89121. Defendant is a licensed medical doctor in the State of Nevada: Nevada Medical
License #4896; National Provider Identifier #1649269986: DEA License # FA2275673.

b. On April 8, 2020, a confidential human source (“CHS 2”), conducted a
consensually monitored and recorded appointment with defendant, who was then acting within
the course of her employment at Western. CHS 2, pretending to be a patient, checked in at the
front desk and paid $500 in cash to the receptionist. An unknown female employee took CHS 2
to an exam room where she explained that Western did not accept insurance. After about an

hour, defendant walked in, asked some medical background questions, and learned from CHS 2





that they were experiencing lower back and knee pain. Defendant then carried out some physical
exam procedures for about three minutes. Defendant then asked if CHS 2 had received any
medical imaging and stated that an MRI would be needed. CHS 2 gave defendant an x-ray of a
generic right knee that law enforcement had given CHS 2 prior to the appointment. The x-ray
showed no obvious indicators of degeneration or damage, only normal! wear for a person of CHS
2's age and gender: the x-ray did not support the prescribing of an opioid drug to treat severe
pain. Defendant examined the x-ray, offered no assessment of what it showed, and explained i)
that new patients at Western typically received a two-week supply of opioid medication; ii) that
they then received two additional weeks of opioid medication, and iii) that they thereafter
received monthly opioid prescriptions. At the conclusion of the appointment, defendant
prescribed 60 tablets of Oxycodone 10mg, a Schedule II controlled substance, to CHS 2.

c On June 24, 2020, another confidential human source (“CHS 1”)
conducted a consensually monitored and recorded appointment with defendant, who was then
acting within the course of her employment at Western. CHS 1, pretending to be a patient, was
taken to an exam room, where an unknown female employee asked why CHS 1 had not been to
the clinic since January 2020. CHS 1 replied that another employee had said, on their last visit,
that they would not prescribe or help CHS | anymore. The female employee told CHS | that
they would need to see a new practitioner at Western, and that they may have to “start over” on
pain medications. CHS 1 was thereafter seen by defendant, who confirmed that CHS 1 had not
been to Western since January 2020. Defendant asked: “So what have you done for the past five
months that you haven’t been in here?" CHS 1 said; “For pain meds? I had to find my own.”
Defendant asked: “How did you find your own, did you buy them on the street?” CHS 1 replied:
“People, yeah . . . just friends and family and friends of friends or whatever.” Defendant stated:

“T wouldn't even know where to begin to know how to find Oxycodone,” and asked if CHS }



VOSS Bek UIHUULU IT UTIWIN WULUINTI YY PNcU YUreeed rays UU 4U

( (

was able to buy enough for “four-a-day.” CHS 1 said no. Defendant then noted that because
CHS 1 was previously on Oxycodone 15mg while seeing another Western employee, the dosage
could not be increased yet, but that it would be increased next month. At the conclusion of the
appointment, defendant prescribed 120 tablets of Oxycodone 15mg, a Schedule II controlled
substance, to CHS 1.

d. The total net weight of the Oxycodone that defendant prescribed on April
8, 2020, and June 24, 2020 is 2.4 grams.’

e. Defendant admits engaging in the following actions: (i) she knowingly
distributed Oxycodone, a schedule II controlled substance, on April 8, 2020 and June 24, 2020;
(ii) she knew that it was Oxycodone, or some other federally controlled substance; and (iii) she
distributed Oxycodone on these two occasions outside the usual course of professional practice
and not for a legitimate medical purpose, each in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), (b)(1)(C).

f. Defendant admits that, during her employment at Western, she, Frances
McCrary (an unlicensed non-physician and the sole owner of Western), and Gary Manley (a
DEA-licensed physician's assistant at Western), knowingly and intentionally conspired and
agreed together and with each other, to possess with intent to distribute, or to distribute,
controlled substances, such distributions being outside the usual course of professional practice
and not for a legitimate medical purpose. Defendant admits that, in furtherance of this
conspiracy, the co-conspirators (among other things) unlawfully distributed Oxycodone to
patients who lived outside Nevada in exchange for cash; distributed Oxycodone to patients
whom the co-conspirators knew were reselling the prescriptions to third-parties; and declined to

dismiss from treatment certain patients who they knew to be reselling their Western-prescribed

' Defendant admits that her distributions involved between 10 KG and 20 KG of converted
drug weight.




controlled substances. Defendant further admits that her unlawful distributions of Oxycodone as
charged in Counts One and Two of the Criminal Information (see 410(b)-(c), above), were made
in furtherance of this conspiracy.
g All of the foregoing events occurred in the State and Federal District of
Nevada.
VI. SENTENCING FACTORS

11. Discretionary Nature of Sentencing Guidelines: Defendant understands that in
determining defendant's sentence, the district court is required to calculate the applicable
sentencing guidelines range and to consider that range, possible departures under the sentencing
guidelines, and the other sentencing factors set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a). Defendant
understands that the sentencing guidelines are advisory only, that defendant cannot have any
expectation of receiving a sentence within the calculated sentencing guidelines range, and that
after considering the sentencing guidelines and the other § 3553(a) factors, the district court will
be free to exercise its discretion to impose any sentence it finds appropriate.

12. Offense Level Calculations: The parties jointly agree and stipulate that, in
calculating defendant's advisory guidelines sentencing range, the Court should use the following
base offense level and adjustments; acknowledge that these stipulations do not bind the district
court; and agree that they will not seek to apply or advocate for the use of any other base offense
levels or any other specific offense characteristics, enhancements, or reductions in calculating the

advisory guidelines range:

Base Offense Level [USSG § 2D1.1(c)(13)]: 14
Adjusted Offense Level: 14
13. Reduction for Acceptance of Responsibility: Under USSG § 3E1.1(a), the USAO

will recommend that defendant receive a two-level downward adjustment for acceptance of




VOSS C64 UUAU IAIN DWN WLU cu UUreeree oF Uye au Ur au

responsibility unless defendant (a) fails to truthfully admit facts establishing a factual basis for the
guilty pleas when defendant enters the pleas; (b) provides false or misleading information to the
USAO, the Court, Pretrial Services, or the Probation Office; (c) denies involvement in the
offenses or provides conflicting statements regarding defendant's involvement or falsely denies or
frivolously contests conduct relevant to the offenses; (d) attempts to withdraw any of defendant's
guilty pleas; (e) commits or attempts to commit any crime; (f) fails to appear in court; or (g)
violates the conditions of pretrial release.

Under USSG § 3E1.1(b), if the district court determines that defendant's total offense
level before operation of § 3E1.1(a) is 16 or higher, and if the USAO recommends a two-level
downward adjustment pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the USAO will move for an
additional one-level downward adjustment for acceptance of responsibility before sentencing
because defendant communicated defendant's decision to plead guilty in a timely manner that
enabled the USAO to avoid preparing for trial and to efficiently allocate its resources.

14. Criminal History Category. Defendant acknowledges that the district court may
base defendant's sentence in part on defendant's criminal record or criminal history. The district
court will determine defendant's criminal history category under the sentencing guidelines.

15. Additional Sentencing Information: The stipulated sentencing guidelines
calculations are based on information now known to the parties. Defendant understands that
both defendant and the USAO are free to (a) supplement the facts in this agreement by supplying
relevant information to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Offices and the district court
regarding the nature, scope, and extent of defendant's criminal conduct and any aggravating or
mitigating facts or circumstances; and (b) correct any and all factual misstatements relating to the
district court's sentencing guidelines calculations and determination of sentence. While this

paragraph permits both the USAO and defendant to submit full and complete factual



information to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services Offices and the district court, even if that
factual information may be viewed as inconsistent with the facts agreed to in this agreement, this
paragraph does not affect defendant's and the USAO's obligations not to contest the facts agreed
to in this agreement. Good faith efforts to provide truthful information or to correct factual
misstatements shall not be grounds for defendant to withdraw defendant's guilty pleas.

Defendant acknowledges that the U.S. Probation Office may calculate the sentencing
guidelines differently and may rely on additional information it obtains through its investigation.
Defendant also acknowledges that the district court may rely on this and other additional
information as it calculates the sentencing guidelines range and makes other sentencing
determinations, and the district court's reliance on such information shall not be grounds for
defendant to withdraw defendant's guilty pleas.

VII. POSITIONS REGARDING SENTENCING

16. | The USAO will recommend that each of the defendant's counts of conviction run
concurrently to each other. The USAO will further recommend that the district court sentence
defendant at the low end of the advisory guideline range as determined by the district court.
Defendant may argue for a downward variance pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a), including a
non-custodial sentence.

17. Defendant acknowledges that the district court does not have to follow the
recommendation of either party.

18. Notwithstanding its agreement to recommend a sentence as described above, the
USAO reserves its right to defend any lawfully imposed sentence on appeal or in any post-
conviction litigation.

19. If defendant commits any act that results in the Court finding that defendant is

not entitled to a downward adjustment for acceptance of responsibility, the USAO is entitled to


al

argue for any sentence it deems appropriate under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a). In any such event,
Defendant remains bound by the provisions of this agreement and shall not have the right to
withdraw defendant's guilty pleas.
VII. WAIVER OF CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS
20. Defendant understands that by pleading guilty, defendant gives up the following
rights:

a. The right to persist in a plea of not guilty;

b. The right to a speedy and public trial by jury;

c. The right to be represented by counsel—and if necessary have the court
appoint counsel—at trial. Defendant understands, however, that, defendant retains the right to
be represented by counsel—and if necessary have the court appoint counsel—at every other stage
of the proceeding;

d. The right to be presumed innocent and to have the burden of proof placed
on the USAO to prove defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt;

e. The right to confront and cross-examine witnesses against defendant;

f. The right to testify and to present evidence in opposition to the charges,
including the right to compel the attendance of witnesses to testify;

g. The right not to be compelled to testify, and, if defendant chose not to
testify or present evidence, to have that choice not be used against defendant; and

h. The right to pursue any affirmative defenses, Fourth Amendment or Fifth
Amendment claims, and any other pretrial motions that have been filed or could be filed.

IX. WAIVER OF APPELLATE RIGHTS
21. Waiver of Appellate Rights. Defendant knowingly and expressly waives: (a) the

right to appeal any sentence imposed within or below the applicable Sentencing Guideline range




as determined by the district court; (b) the right to appeal the manner in which the district court
determined that sentence on the grounds set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3742; and (¢c) subject solely to
the exceptions listed in the next paragraph, the right to appeal any other aspect of the conviction,
including but not limited to the constitutionality of the statutes of conviction; and any other
aspect of the sentence.

22. Defendant reserves only the right to appeal any portion of the sentence that is an
upward departure or variance from the applicable Sentencing Guideline range as determined by
the district court.

23. Waiver of Post-Conviction Rights. Defendant also knowingly and expressly
waives all collateral challenges, including any claims under 28 U.S.C. § 2255, to defendant's
conviction, sentence, and the procedure by which the district court adjudicated guilt and
imposed sentence, except non-waivable claims of ineffective assistance of counsel.

24. Preservation of Evidence: Defendant acknowledges that the USAO and the
agencies investigating this case are not obligated or required to preserve any evidence obtained in
the investigation of this case.

X. RESULT OF WITHDRAWAL OF GUILTY PLEAS
OR VACATUR/REVERSAL/SET-ASIDE OF CONVICTIONS

25. Consequence of withdrawal of guilty pleas: Defendant agrees that if, after entering
guilty pleas pursuant to this agreement, defendant seeks to withdraw and succeeds in
withdrawing defendant's guilty pleas on any basis other than a claim and finding that entry into
this agreement was involuntary, then (a) the USAO will be relieved of all of its obligations under
this agreement, (b) should the USAO choose to pursue any charge that was either dismissed or
not filed as a result of this agreement, then (i) any applicable statute of limitations will be tolled
between the date of defendant’s signing of this agreement and the filing commencing any such

action; and (ii) defendant waives and gives up all defenses based on the statute of limitations,


WOE ed U UU RUIN EWEN eae Fe Ureeren Fuge a Ur ae


any claim of pre-indictment delay, or any speedy trial claim with respect to any such action,
except to the extent that such defenses existed as of the date of defendant's signing this
agreement.

26. Consequence of vacatur, reversal, or set-aside: Defendant agrees that if any count
of conviction is vacated, reversed, or set aside, the USAO may: (a) ask the district court to
resentence defendant on any remaining counts of conviction, with both the USAO and
defendant being released from any stipulations regarding sentencing contained in this agreement;
(b) ask the district court to void the entire plea agreement and vacate defendant's guilty pleas on
any remaining counts of conviction, with both the USAO and defendant being released from all
their obligations under this agreement; or (c) leave defendant’s remaining convictions, sentence,
and plea agreement intact. Defendant agrees that the choice among these three options rests in
the exclusive discretion of the USAO, and that, should the USAO choose to pursue any charge
that was either dismissed or not filed as a result of this agreement, then (i) any applicable statute
of limitations will be tolled between the date of defendant's signing of this agreement and the
filing commencing any such action; and (ii) defendant waives and gives up all defenses based on
the statute of limitations, any claim of pre-indictment delay, or any speedy trial claim with
Tespect to any such action, except to the extent that such defenses existed as of the date of
defendant’s signing this agreement.

XII. BREACH OF AGREEMENT

27. Defendant agrees that if, at any time after this agreement becomes effective,
defendant knowingly violates or fails to perform any of defendant's obligations under this
agreement (“a breach”), the USAO may declare this agreement breached. All of defendant’s
obligations are material, a single breach of this agreement is sufficient for the USAO to declare a

breach, and defendant shall not be deemed to have cured a breach without the express agreement


il




ee te ee eee eae eee rere Ene eemeee 6 ge oe ot oe

of the USAO in writing. If the USAO declares this agreement breached, and the district court
finds such a breach to have occurred, then: (a) if defendant has previously entered guilty pleas
pursuant to this agreement, defendant will remain bound by the provisions of this agreement and
will not be able to withdraw the guilty pleas, and (b) the USAO will be relieved of all its
obligations under this agreement.

XI. COURT AND UNITED STATES PROBATION
AND PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICE NOT PARTIES,

28. Defendant understands that the Court and the U.S. Probation and Pretrial
Services Office are not parties to this agreement and need not accept any of the USAO’s
sentencing recommendations or the parties’ agreements to facts or sentencing factors.

29. Defendant understands that both defendant and the USAO are free to argue on
appeal and collateral review that the district court's sentencing guidelines calculations and the
sentence it chooses to impose are not error.

30. Defendant understands that even if the district court ignores any sentencing
recommendation, finds facts or reaches conclusions different from those agreed to by the parties,
or imposes any sentence up to the maximum established by statute, defendant cannot, for that
reason, withdraw defendant's guilty pleas, and defendant will remain bound to fulfill all
defendant's obligations under this agreement. Defendant understands that no one—not the
prosecutor, defendant’s attorney, or the Court—can make a binding prediction or promise
regarding the sentence defendant will receive, except that it will be within the statutory
maximum.

XIV. ADDITIONAL ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

31. The Defendant acknowledges that:

a. Defendant read this agreement and defendant understands its terms and

conditions.

ei



We ie ee ee oe tees mere ee Cenmerme fs ngs oe ome


b. Defendant had adequate time to discuss this case, the evidence, and this
agreement with defendant’s attorney.

c. Defendant carefully and thoroughly discussed all terms of this agreement
with defendant's attorney.

d. Defendant understands the terms of this agreement and voluntarily agrees
to those terms.

e. Defendant has discussed with defendant’s attomey the following: the
evidence; defendant's rights; possible pretrial motions that might be filed; possible defenses that
might be asserted either prior to or at trial; the sentencing factors set forth in 18 U.S.C. 3553(a);
the relevant sentencing guidelines provisions; and consequences of entering into this agreement.

f. The representations contained in this agreement are true and correct,
including the factual basis for defendant's offenses set forth in this agreement.

B. Defendant was not under the influence of any alcohol, drug, or medicine
that would impair defendant’s ability to understand the agreement when defendant considered.
signing this agreement and when defendant signed it.

32. Defendant understands that defendant alone decides whether to plead guilty or go
to trial, and acknowledges that defendant has decided to enter defendant's guilty pleas knowing
of the charges brought against defendant, defendant's possible defenses, and the benefits and
possible detriments of proceeding to trial.

33. Defendant understands that no promises, understandings, or agreements other
than those set forth in this agreement have been made or implied by defendant, defendant's
attorney, or the USAO, and no additional promises, agreements, or conditions shall have any
force or effect unless set forth in writing and signed by all parties or confirmed on the record

before the district court.



34, Defendant acknowledges that defendant decided to plead guilty voluntarily and
that no one threatened, coerced, or forced defendant to enter into this agreement.

35. Defendant is satisfied with the representation of defendant’s attorney, and
defendant is pleading guilty because defendant is guilty of the charges and chooses to take

advantage of the promises set forth in this agreement and for no other reason.


1]


XV. PLEA AGREEMENT PART OF THE GUILTY PLEA HEARING

36. The parties agree that this agreement will be considered part of the record of

defendant's guilty plea hearing as if the entire agreement had been read into the record of the

proceeding.

AGREED AND ACCEPTED

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA

CHRISTOPH: vey
Acting Unite

/a [24

PET. fe Livirt Date
Asif tant United States Attorney
KAREN ARCOTTA Date
Defendant
ra],
6/4 [9-09~|
Date

MACE YAMPOYSHY ESQ.
Attorney for Deféndaft

—— SERVED ON

Case 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK Document 6 Filed re wreege 1 of 2 teense
( COUNSEL/PARTIES OF RECORD

AQ 455 (Rev 01/09) Warver of an Indictment

<a JUN 22, 2021
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COUK
for the CLERK US DISTRICT COURT
District of Nevada BY: DISTRICT OF NEVADA DEPUTY
United States of America )
v. ) Case No. 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK

KAREN ARCOTTA, M.D. )
Defendant )

WAIVER OF AN INDICTMENT

l understand that I have been accused of one or more offenses punishable by imprisonment for more than one
year. | was advised in open court of my rights and the nature of the proposed charges against me.

After receiving this advice, | waive my right to prosecution by indictment and consent to prosecution by
information.

Date: 6/22/2021 See attached

Defendant's signature

See attached
Signature of defendant's attorney

Mace Yampolsky
Printed name of defendant's attorney

AS

Judge's signature

istrict Judge

Judge's printed name and title
Case 2:21-Ci-UUL0/-RFB-NJK vocumento Filed pedis Page 2or2

Lnethide MEN yet uat

UNITED STATES Disteicr Court
foros

WianitofNevsts
Uresed Sunes of Amertea y
¥. 4 Gaeno
COTTA. MD. ,
‘pny )

WAIVER OF AN INDICTMENT

onder (as I have heen erat af ere ov ise aftenes punlitahte by lenprticdet for mame than ore
oat Lum abvined tn open cnt of my tghta ae the rene oft pope Che gO me

After reccisiegubi alice, Hrale my lato pveetion Ind stars ent corsént ta pevacuon by

isiaist
a)

y

LV
“rieetnieeff aintoe sett,
Ai

Teds epronts seeming
Case 2:21-cr-OP67-RFS-NIK Document 7 Filed Prl22lat Page 1 @6dusevparties oF record

DEFENDANT INFORMATION RELATIVE TO A CRIMINAL ACTION - IN U.S. DIS JUN 22, 2021 |

BY: [X] INFORMATION [J INDICTMENT [] ComPLAINT CASE NO.

Matter Seated: [_] Juventie [J other than Juvenite
( Pre-indictment Plea [] superseding (C] Defendant Added

Indictment [7] Charges/Counts Added
formation

Name of District Court, and/or Judge/Magistrate Location (City)

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEVADA Divislonal Office

Name and Office of Person eter S.tevitt
Furnishing informationon —[xJu.s, atty _[_Jother U.S. Agency

THIS FORM Phone No. (702) 388-6531
Name of Asst. , 5
U.S. Altorney Peter S. Levitt
(if assigned)
PROCEEDING

Name of Complainant Agency, or Person (& Title, if any)

([] person is awaiting trial in another Federal or State Court
(give name of court)

[1 _ this person/proceeding transferrad from another district
per (circle one) FRCrP_ 20, 21 or 40. Show District

this is a reprosecution of charges
previously dismissed which were
dismissed on motion of:

Olus aty C1] vetense
0 SHOW

(1 this prosecution relates to a DOCKET No.
pending case Involving this same
defendant, (Notice of Related
Case must still be filed with the
Clerk) u

1 prior proceedings or appearance(s) aE NG
before U.S. Magistrate Judge
regarding this defendant were
recorded under

Place of |
offense

County.

2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NeKus oistaict court

DISTRICT OF NEVADA
USA vs. BY: DEPUTY
Defendant. KAREN ARCOTTA, M.D.
Address:
O Interpreter Required Dialect:
Birth © Male OD Alien

Date

4} Female (if applicable)

Social Security Number

DEFENDANT

Issue: (_] Warrant [_] summons

Location Status:

Arrest Date or Date Transferred to Federal Custody

| Currently in Federal Custody

oO Currently in State Custody
Writ Required

oO Currently on bond

oO Fugitive

Defense Counsel (if any): Mace Yampolsky

Corpo ([JcvA (RET

oO Appointed on Target Letter

O This report amends AO 257 previously submitted

OFFENSE CHARGED - U.S.C. CITATION - STATUTORY MAXIMUM PENALTIES - ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OR COMMENTS

Total # of Counts 2

Set Title & Section/Offense Level
(Pelty = 4/ Misdemeanor = 3/ Felony = 4)

Description of Offense Charged Felony/Misd.

4 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a), (b)(I)(C) Distribution of Controlled Substances-Schedule II fiFelony

Misdemeanor]
Felony
Misdemeanor

Felony

|Misdemeanor|
Felony
lisdemeanor]

[lFetony

IMisdemeanor]
Case 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK Document9 Filed pri2zi2. Page 1 of 7
( _FILED __RECEIVED
—— ENTERED SERVED ON

AO 98 (Rev. 12/11) Appearance Bond COUNSEL/PARTIES OF RECORD

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUN 22, 2021

for the
District of Nevada CLERK US DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEVADA
United States of America ) BY PUT
v. )
KAREN ARCOTTA ) Case No. 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK
Defendant )
APPEARANCE BOND
Defendant’s Agreement
it KAREN ARCOTTA

‘i (defendant), agree to follow every order of this court, or any
court that considers this case, and I further agree that this bond may be forfeited if I fail:

( X ) to appear for court proceedings;

( X ) _ ifconvicted, to surrender to serve a sentence that the court may impose; or

( X ) to comply with all conditions set forth in the Order Setting Conditions of Release.

Type of Bond
( X ) (1) This is a personal recognizance bond.
(_) (2) This is an unsecured bond of $
(_) @) This is a secured bond of $ , secured by:
( )@s$ , in cash deposited with the court.

(__) (b) the agreement of the defendant and each surety to forfeit the following cash or other property
(describe the cash or other property, including claims on it~ such as a lien, mortgage, or loan — and attach proof of
ownership and value):

If this bond is secured by real property, documents to protect the secured interest may be filed of record.

(_) (c) a bail bond with a solvent surety (attach a copy of the bail bond, or describe it and identify the surety):

Forfeiture or Release of the Bond

Forfeiture of the Bond. This appearance bond may be forfeited if the defendant does not comply with the above
agreement. The court may immediately order the amount of the bond surrendered to the United States, including the
security for the bond, if the defendant does not comply with the agreement. At the request of the United States, the court
may order a judgment of forfeiture against the defendant and each surety for the entire amount of the bond, including
interest and costs.
Case 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK Document9 Filed paizet2a Page 2 ot 7

AO 199A (Rev. 06/19) Order Setting conde of Release Page 20f 7 __ Pages
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
for the
District of Nevada

United States of America
Vv.

KAREN ARCOTTA Case No. 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK.

Defendant
ORDER SETTING CONDITIONS OF RELEASE

IT IS ORDERED that the defendant's release is subject to these conditions:
(1) The defendant must not violate federal, state, or local law while on release.
(2) The defendant must cooperate in the collection of a DNA sample if it is authorized by 34 U.S.C. § 40702.

(3) The defendant must advise the court or the pretrial services office or supervising officer in writing before making
any change of residence or telephone number.

(4) The defendant must appear in court as required and, if convicted, must surrender as directed to serve a sentence that
the court may impose.

The defendant must appear at: 2S Ordered.
Place

on
Date and Time

If blank, defendant will be notified of next appearance.

(5) The defendant must sign an Appearance Bond, if ordered.
Case 2121-0 (PAST REBNOK Document 9 Filed prieei2d Page 3 ot 7

‘AO 1998 (Rev. 03/2020) Additional Conditions of Release Page 3 of 7 Pages

ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS OF RELEASE

Upon finding that release by one of the above methods will not by itself reasonably assure the defendant's appearance and the safety of other persons
or the community, IT 1S FURTHER ORDERED that the defendant's release is subject to the conditions marked below:

SUPERVISION
(_ )(6) The defendant is placed in the custody of:

Person or organization
Address (only if above is an organization)

City and State

Tel. No.
(only if above is an organization)

who agrees (a) to supervise the defendant in accordance with all of the conditions of release, (b) to use every effort to assure the
defendants appearance at all scheduled court proceedings and (c) to notify the court immediately if the defendant violates any condition of

release or disappears.

Signed:

Custodian or Proxy, Date.
(A(7) The defendant shall report to: W) USS. Pretrial Services Office W) Las Vegas 702-464-5630 (_ ) Reno 775-686-5964
no later than: (_) U.S. Probation Office (_) Las Vegas 702-527-7300 ( ) Reno 775-686-5980

(_) (8) The defendant is released on the conditions previously imposed.

BOND

() (9) The defendant shall execute a bond or an agreement to forfeit upon failing to appear as required the following sum of money or designated
property:
(_) (10) The defendant shail post with the court the following proof of ownership of the designated property, or the following amount or percentage
of the above-described sum:

(_) (11) The defendant shall execute a bail bond with solvent sureties in the amount of S

(_) (12) The defendant shall satisfy all outstanding warrants within days and provide verification to Pretrial Services or the supervising
officer.
( ) (13) The defendant shall pay all outstanding fines within, days and provide verification to Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

(_} (14) The defendant shall abide by all conditions of release of any current term of parole, probation, or supervised release.

N
(-) (15) The defendant shall use his/her true name only and shall not use any false identifiers.
(_) (16) The defendant shall not possess or use false or fraudulent access devices.

TRAVEL
(A (17) The defendant shall surrender any passport and/or passport card to U.S. Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.
( ) (18) The defendant shall report any lost or stolen passport or passport card to the issuing agency as directed by Pretrial Services or the
supervising
officer within 48 hours of release.
(W, (19) The defendant shall not obtain a passport or passport card.
(W) (20) The defendant shall abide by the following restrictions on personal association, place of abode, or travel:
Travel is restricted to the following areas:
(_ ) Clark County, NV (_) Washoe County, NV (_) State of NV (W) Continental U.S.A. (_) Other.
(_) 21) The defendant may travel to, for the purpose
of,

RESIDENCE

(_ ) (22) The defendant shall maintain residence at (_) current address, or (_) at
and may not move prior to obtaining permission from the Court, Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

(_ ) (23) The defendant shall maintain residence at a halfway house or community corrections center as Pretrial Services or the supervising officer
considers necessary.

(_ ) (24) The defendant shall pay all or part of the costs for residing at the halfway house or community corrections center based upon his/her
ability to pay as Pretrial Services or the supervising officer determines.

Case 2:21-cr-00167-RFB-NJK Document 9 Filed paigeies Page 4 ot/

AO 199B (Rev. 03/2020) Additional Conditions of Release Page 4 of _/ Pages
(_) (25) The defendant shall retum to custody each (week) day at o'clock after being released each (week) day at
o'clock for employment, schooling, or the following
purpose(s):
PL

( ) (26) The defendant shall maintain or actively seek lawful and verifiable employment and notify Pretrial Services or the supervising officer prior
to any change.

(_ ) (27) The defendant shall not be employed in, or be present in, any setting directly involving minor children, a

(W) (28) The defendant shall not secure employment in the following field(s): allowing defendant to prescribe medication.

(_) (29) The defendant is prohibited from employmenvself-employment in a setting where he/she has access to financial transactions or the personal
identifiers of others.

EDUCATION/VOCATION
(-) G0) The defendant shall maintain or commence an education or vocational program as directed by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

IN’
W Gi) The defendant shall avoid all contact directly or indirectly with any person who is or may become a victim or potential witness in the
investigation or prosecution, (including but not limited to:( ).

(_ ) 32) The defendant shall avoid all contact directly or indirectly with co-defendant(s) unless it is in the presence of counsel.
(_ ) (33) The defendant is prohibited from contact with anyone under the age of 18, unless in the presence of a parent or guardian who is aware of the
alleged instant offense.
() (3B) The defendant is prohibited from entering or remaining at any place primarily used by children under the age of 18, unless he/she
has the express prior permission of his/her Pretrial Services Officer or supervising officer. Examples of such prohibited places include parks,
schools, playgrounds, and child care facilities.
(_ ) (4) The defendant shall report as soon as possible to Pretrial Services or the supervising officer any contact with law enforcement personnel,
including but not limited to any arrest, questioning, or traffic stop.

APONS
aM (35) The defendant shall refrain from possessing a firearm, destructive device, or other dangerous weapons.
(WV, G6) Any firearms and/or dangerous weapons shall be removed from the defendant’s possession by another responsible adult within 24 hours of

release from-custody.and the defendant shall provide written proof of such to Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.
( ) G7) The defendant shall provide written proof that his/her access to and possession of said firearm and/or dangerous weapon(s) has been
discontinued. ‘The written proof shall be provided to Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

SUBSTANCE USE TESTING AND TREATMENT

© (38) The defendant shall refrain from use or unlawful possession of a narcotic drug or other controlled substances defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 unless
prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner. This includes Marijuana and/or any item containing THCEX&¢P* 8s authorized by cour order, the defendant shall ne
( ) (39) The defendant shall refrain from any use of alcohol. Foctats se ell ey for bl eine edibles serivative
(W) (40) The defendant shall refrain from the excessive use of alcohol. (ine! ose feel iC) in any fom in sd edibles) or for any
(_) GI) The defendant shall refrain from the use or possession of synthetic drugs or other such intoxicating substances.” vapess)
(_ ) (42) The defendant shall submit to an initial urinalysis. If positive, then (43) applies.
(A (43) The defendant shall submit to any testing required by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer to determine whether the defendant is using
a prohibited substance. Any testing may be used with random frequency and may include urine testing, a remote alcohol testing system and/or any
form of prohibited substance screening or testing. The defendant shall refrain from obstructing or attempting to obstruct or tamper, in any fashion, with
the efficiency and accuracy of any prohibited substance testing or monitoring which is/are required as a condition of release.
(W (44) The defendant shall pay all or part of the cost of the testing program based upon his/her ability to pay as Pretrial Services or the supervising
officer determines.
(_ )(45) The defendant shall not be in the presence of anyone using or possessing:

()(45A) A narcotic drug or other controlled substances

() GSB) Alcohol

( ) (45C) Imoxicating substances or synthetics
( ) (46) The defendant shall participate in a program of inpatient or outpatient substance abuse therapy and counseling if Pretrial Services or the
supervising officer considers it advisable.
() (47) The defendant shall pay all or part of the cost of the substance abuse treatment program or evaluation based upon his/ter ability to pay as
determined by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT

(W) (48) The defendant shall submit to a mental health evaluation as directed by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

(W) (49) The defendant shall participate in mental health treatment as directed by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

(, (50) The defendant shall pay all or part of the cost of the medical or psychiatric treatment program or evaluation based upon his/her ability to pay
as determined by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

Revised 3/2020 to Include USDC/NV Special Conditions
Case 2:21-Cr-UUL0/-KFB-NJK Vocumenty Flied Un/2zizl rage 5 OT /

AO 199B (Rev. 03/2020) Additional Conditions of Release Page_D of 7 Pages

TORING
( ) G1) The defendant shall participate in one of the following location monitoring program components and abide by its requirements as Pretrial
Services or the supervising officer instructs.
( ) (SIA) Curfew.
The defendant is restricted to his/her residence every day from to and/or a time schedule
deemed appropriate by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.
(_ ) (51B) Home Detention.
The defendant is restricted to his/her residence at all times except for employment; education; religious services; medical,
substance abuse or mental health treatment; attorney visits; court appearances; court-ordered obligations; or other activities
preapproved by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.
() IC) Home Incarceration.
The defendant is restricted to 24-hour-a-day lock-down except for medical necessities and court appearances or other activities
specifically approved by the court.

(_ ) (52) The defendant shall submit to the type of location monitoring technology indicated below and abide by all of the program requirements and
instructions provided by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer related to the proper operation of the technology.

(_) (2A) Location monitoring technology as directed by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.

(_ ) (2B) Voice Recognition monitoring.

(_ ) (52C) Radio Frequency (RF) monitoring.

(_) (S2D) Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) monitoring.
(_)(53) The defendant shall not tamper with, damage, or remove the monitoring device and shall charge the said equipment according to the instructions
provided by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer.
(_ ) (54) The defendant shall pay all or part of the cost of the location monitoring program based upon his/her ability to pay as determined by Pretrial
Services or the supervising officer.


(_ ) (SS) The defendant shall not have access to computers or connecting devices which have Internet, Instant Messaging, IRC Servers and/or the
World Wide Web, including but not limited to: PDA’s, Cell Phones, iPods, iPads, Tablets, E-Readers, Wii, PlayStation, Xbox or any such devices, at
home, place of employment, or in the community.

( )(56) The defendant must not access the Intemet except for the purpose(s) marked below:
(_)56A. Employment
(_) $6B. Banking/Bill Paying
()S6C. Other.

(- ) (57) The defendant must submit hisher computers (as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1030(c)(1)) or other electronic communications or data storage
devices or media, to a search, The defendant must wam any other people who use these computers or devices capable of accessing the Internet that
the devices may be subject to searches pursuant to this condition. A Pretrial Services Officer, or supervising officer may conduct a search pursuant to
this condition only when reasonable suspicion exists that there is a violation of a condition of supervision and that the computer or device contains
evidence of this violation. Any search will be conducted at a reasonable time and in a reasonable manner.

( )(58) The defendant must allow Pretrial Services or the supervising officer to install computer monitoring software on any computer and/or intemet
capable device (as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(1)) he/she uses,

( ) (59) To ensure compliance with the computer monitoring condition, the defendant must allow the Pretrial Services Officer or supervising officer
to conduct initial and periodic unannounced searches of any computers (as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(1)) subject to computer monitoring. These
searches shall be conducted to determine whether the computer contains any prohibited data prior to installation of the monitoring software, whether
the monitoring software is functioning effectively after its installation, and whether there have been attempts to circumvent the monitoring software
after its installation. The defendant must warn any other people who use these computers that the computers may be subject to searches pursuant to this
condition.

(60) The defendant shall refrain from possession of pornography or erotica in any form or medium.

( ) (61) The defendant shall pay all or part of the cost of the intemet monitoring software upon his/her ability to pay as determined by Pretrial
Services or the supervising officer.

( ) (62) Other,

FI
() re a defendant shall not obtain new bank accounts or lines of credit.

(_ ) (64) The defendant shall not act in a fiduciary manner on behalf of another person.

( ) (65) The defendant shall not use any identifiers, access devices, or accounts, unless under his/her true name.
(. ) (66) The defendant shall not solicit monies from investors.

Revised 3/2020 to Include USDC/NV Special Conditions
Vase 2:21-Ci-UULO/-Krb-NJK Vocumenty Filed prieelet Page 0 OT /

AO 199B (Rev. 03/2020) Additional Conditions of Release Page_© of _7 Pages

(_ ) (67) The defendant shall disclose financial information as directed by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer,

( ) (68) The defendant shall reimburse the Treasury of the United States for the cost of (name of
attomey) representation at the rate of $, per » payable to the Clerk of the Court for deposit in the Treasury, as follows:
SE.

( ) (69) The defendant shall be subject to search of person, residence and/or vehicle as directed by Pretrial Services or the supervising officer to ensure
compliance with these conditions.

OTHER PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES

() (70) The defendant shall refrain from gambling or entering any establishment whose primary business involves gambling activities.

(_) (71) The defendant is prohibited from entering any establishment whose primary source of business involves pornography, erotica, or adult
entertainment.

(_ ) (72) The defendant shall withdraw from any interest, in any state, that he/she may have in any business which is related to the sale, distribution,
manufacture or promotion of marijuana or synthetic marijuana. This includes other dispensaries or paraphernalia stores.

(_ ) (73) The defendant shall not obtain or renew a “medical marijuana” card within the State of Nevada or any other state.

(_ ) (74) All aspects of the dispensary shall be closed.

(_ ) (75) All promotion, web sites and advertising associated with the establishment should be discontinued.

(_ ) (16) The defendant shall seek and maintain full time employment outside the field of medical marijuana and hydroponics.

(_ ) (77) The defendant shall have no involvement whatsoever in any medical marijuana program, to include consulting, manufacture, or dispensing of
controlled substances, either voluntary or in return for compensation, nor can defendant be involved with individuals seeking a doctor's
recommendation.

( ) (78) The defendant shail not visit or associate with any hydroponic, paraphemalia or dispensing stores.

( ) (79) The defendant shall have no involvement in the referral of medical marijuana.

THER COND)
(W, (80) The defendant shall abide by other conditions as noted below:

Report Report via telephone any instance of COVID-19 symptoms, exposure, and/or quarantine immediately to
the supervising officer;

W(81) Comply with the directives of medical, public health, and government officials with respect to a quarantine
and/or stay at home_order.

Revised 3/2020 to Include USOC/NV Special Conditions
