OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-5901-1

Against:

FILED
ROBERT STEPHEN FREDERICKS, M.D.,
Respondent. JUN 10 2022
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

SETTLEMENT AG

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Goard), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, J.D., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for
the IC, and Robert Stephen Fredericks, M.D., (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attorney, Jeremy R. Reichenberg, Esq., of Gunderson Law Firm, hereby enter into
this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on March 29, 1980 (License No. 4014).

2. On April 20th, 2022, in Case No. 22-5901-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(h), Unauthorized and Inappropriate
Prescribing of a Controlled Substance Listed in Schedule II, III or TV (Count 1); and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(g), Failure to Comply with the Requirements of NRS 639.23507

TAN agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


FS BBRSFSFert_aeanaresnere


(Count II). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on
the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at [his/her] own expense,
in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and
order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s
order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and

20f 8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559




the Board.
B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _b ‘ounsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3, Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent

acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Naar @ DN FD

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
that Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a Respondent admits to Counts I and I, one (1) violation of
NRS 630.3062(1)(h), Unauthorized and Inappropriate Prescribing of a Controlled Substance
Listed in Schedule II, III or TV (Count 1), and one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(g), Failure to
Comply with the Requirements of NRS 639.23507 (Count IT).

b. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter in the total amount of thirteen thousand seven
hundred ninety-three dollars and fifty-one cents ($13,793.51). Respondent shall pay these
aforementioned costs and expenses in twelve (12) equal payments of one thousand one hundred
forty-nine dollars and forty-six cents ($1,149.46). The first payment shall be due on or before
August 10, 2022, the second payment due on or before September 10, 2022, and each successive
payment due on or before the tenth day of each month thereafter, with the final payment of one
thousand one hundred forty-nine dollars and forty-five cents ($1,149.45) due on or before
July 10, 2023. The costs and expenses as well as the payment plan are subject to the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). Respondent shall pay the aforementioned fine in twelve (12) equal payments of two
hundred eight dollars and thirty-three cents ($208.33). The first payment shall be due on or before


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Neveda 89521

(75) 688-2559


Naar ®@D YN FD

August 10, 2022, the second payment due on or before September 10, 2022, and each successive
payment due on or before the tenth day of each month thereafter, with the final payment of two
hundred eight dollars and thirty-seven cents ($208.37) due on or before July 10, 2023. The fine as
well as the payment plan are subject to the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement.

d. Respondent shall complete twenty-one (21) hours of continuing medical
education (CME) regarding Best Practices in Prescribing of Controlled Substances within six (6)
months of the date of the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The
aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly
imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada, and shall be
approved by the Board to meet this requirement prior to their completion, and proof of completion
shall be provided to the Board.

€ Respondent shall, for a period of three (3) years from the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, specifically comply with all laws pertaining
to the dispensing, prescribing or administration of controlled substances and dangerous drugs,
including but not limited to, the requirements of NRS 453.163, 453.164, 453.226, 639.23507,
639.23535 and 639.2391 to 639.23916, inclusive, and any other regulations adopted by the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant thereto.

f. Respondent shall, for a period of three (3) years from the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, specifically comply with the requirements
of NRS 630.306(1)(f), in so doing, he shall not perform any procedure or prescribe any therapy
which by the current standards of the practice of medicine is experimental without first obtaining
the informed consent of the patient or the patient’s family.

g. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

h, Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

i, The remaining counts of the Complaint, if any, and any other claims arising

from the Board’s corresponding investigative case file(s) and any other investigative cases


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BsSoariaanrkr SBRSS


pending as of the date this Agreement is executed by the Respondent, shall be dismissed with
prejudice.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of|
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or the IC’s counsel.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Exeminers

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(75) 688-2559


FB BBRS Feta RZRESERAS


8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed.
and any other claims arising from the Board’s corresponding investigative case file(s) and any

other investigative cases pending as of the date this Agreement is executed by the Respondent,

shall be dismissed with prejudice.
9. Effect of Ri n_of Agreement rd. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

Tof8

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


SBBRESSSVRFRRPSRSS



Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts,

5) A
DATED this_\"l~ day of Mes ,2022. DATED this_)} dayof Mew, 2022,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE GUNDERSON LAW FIRM
NEVADA STATB BOARD OF MEDICAL

By:
AARON BART FRICKE, J.D. JEREMY R. REICHENBERG, ESQ.
General Counsel 3895 Warren Way
9600 Gateway Drive Reno, NV 89509
Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (775) 829-1222
Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email:
Email: afri Attorney for Respondent

Attorney for the Investigative Committee

DATED this D” say of [nv #7, 2022.

By:
ROBERT STEPHEN FREDERICKS, M.D.,
Nevada License No. 4014
Respondent


1 ORDER

2 || IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 22-5901-1)
3 || was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 10th day of
4 || June, 2022.

5 DATED this 10th day of June, 2022.

6 NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

8 By: U M Merrrs
VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Board President

Examiners
N

(775) 688-2559
BR

Nevada State Boa
EN

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



