Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of the Investigation of: Case No.: 22-8616-1

MORTON ISAAC HYSON, M.D.,
License No. 6062.

ORDER OF SUMMARY SUSPENSION AND NOTICE OF HEARING

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) hereby IMMEDIATELY SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Morton Isaac
Hyson, M.D. (Licensee) from the practice of medicine, pursuant to the Board’s authority to
regulate the practice of medicine in the State of Nevada pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630.

The IC issues this Order of Summary Suspension (Order) based on its determination that
Licensee’s acts put the health, safety or welfare of the public at risk of imminent harm pursuant to
NRS 630.326(1).

Prior to the preparation of this Order, Board Staff presented to the IC the following:

1, Licensee is a medical doctor licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada
(6062). The Board issued his license on July 1, 1990.

2. On November 27, 2020, Licensee entered into a Settlement Agreeement with the
IC and the Board approved it on December 4, 2020. See Exhibit 1.

3, Notably, a restriction/condition contained in the Settlement Agreement was for the
Licensee to have a female chaperone with him when treating female patients and to document

these events in his medical records. Jd. at 5g.

1 The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners is composed of Board
members Bret W. Frey, M.D., Chairman, Chowdhury H. Ashan, M.D., Ph.D., FACC, and Col. Eric D. Wade, USAF

(Ret.).

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


4, On June 4, 2021, Licensee appeared before the Board during a regularly scheduled
Board meeting along with his attorney and requested that the Board remove that restriction from
his license to practice medicine. Licensee adamantly assured the Board that he would keep the
chaperone in place and gave the Board permission to randomly retrieve his records to determine if
he was utilizing the chaperone(s) appropriately. The Board approved the request and removed the
restriction of having a chaperone present during the Licensee’s treatment of female patients.
However, the Board made clear to Licensee that it continued to have the expectation that Licensee
would have a chaperone, but it would no longer be a condition on his license.

5. On June 16, 2021, the Board filed an Order removing the restriction/condition from
Licensee’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada, with the understanding Licensee
would continue to utilize chaperones. See Exhibit 2.

6. Upon information and belief, on or about February 7, 2022, Patient A? visited the
Licensee for consultation about a neurological test and nothing seemed out of the ordinary. See
Patient A’s Affidavit attached hereto as Exhibit 3.

7. Upon information and belief, Patient A returned to Licensee’s office for
performance of the test on or about February 9, 2022. Id.

8. Upon information and belief, Patient A was seen by another unidentified person
and then Licensee saw her with no chaperone, particularly a female one, in the room. Jd.

9. Upon information and belief, Patient A was extremely uncomfortable when
Licensee was performing his portion of the neurological exam, which included unlawful and
unsolicited sexual touching without Patient A’s consent as she started to leave the room. Jd.

10. Upon information and belief, Respondent made five (5) needle punctures to Patient
A’s skin on her arm without sterilizing the area during the test. Jd.

11. Upon information and belief, when Patient A was trying to leave the room,
Licensee moved closer to Patient A groping her body and made an attempt to kiss her on the

2 Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient Designation
served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Order.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


mouth. Patient A turned her head, but could not avoid being kissed on the cheek as she tried to
push Licensee away. Id.

12. As Patient A was nearly out of the door of the room, Licensee pulled out a wad of
cash and handed Patient A two one hundred dollar bills. Jd.

13. Based on the foregoing, the IC finds that the health, safety and welfare of the
public is at imminent risk of harm if Licensee is permitted to continue practicing, and that an
immediate summary suspension of Licensee’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada
is necessary for the protection of the public. See NRS 630.326(1).

ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the License of Morton Isaac Hyson, M.D. (6062) is
SUMMARILY SUSPENDED until further order of the IC or Board, and Licensee is prohibited
from engaging in any acts that constitute the practice of medicine pursuant to NRS 630.020; and

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a hearing on this matter is set for the 20th day of
June, 2022, at 9:00 a.m., at the Board’s office located at 9600 Gateway Drive, Reno, Nevada
89521, to determine whether this suspension may continue, unless the parties mutually agree in
writing to a different date and/or time. See NRS 630.326(2).

DATED this 12th day of May, 2022.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:


EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 1
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEI

Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Ce

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 20-8616-1
Against LE D
MORTON ISAAC HYSON, M.D., DEC - 4 2020

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. MEDIC4Y EXAMINERS
By: <=

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
|| by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for the IC, and

Morton Isaac Hyson, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, through his attorney
Katherine Turpen, Esq., of John Cotton & Associates, Ltd., hereby enter into this Settlement
Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. ‘Background

1 Respondent is a physician currently licensed in active status by the Board pursuant to
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative
Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in Nevada. His license was
originally issued on July 1, 1990 (License No. 6062).

2. On November [lo 2020, in Case No. 20-8616-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges Count I, Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records, NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Count
Il, Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records, NRS 630.3062(1)(a), Count II, Failure to Comply

Tan agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



with Order, NRS 630.3065(2)(a). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by
the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.

7. Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this
Agreement, then the terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable

upon him and the Board.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


-10


B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review. |

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in

conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, Respondent admits to Count I NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain
Proper Medical Records; Count II NRS 630.3062(1)(a) Failure to Maintain Proper Medical
Records; Count III NRS 630.3065(2)(a) Failure to Comply with Order.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being five thousand four hundred
nineteen dollars and ninety-six cents ($5,419.96), not including any costs that may be necessary to
finalize this Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) within sixty
(60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

f. Any other claims arising from Board Investigation No. 16-16277, shall be
dismissed with prejudice.

g. Respondent shall keep a female chaperon employed and present during all

of his female patient encounters and document such chaperon within the medical records.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board. Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and
communications may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on
his part until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement,
the Complaint and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The
IC and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the

Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that
may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

iit
Fi m4

é

Zz



and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Spas
SEES
¥548
as gt
2S 2




Dated this27 dayof A®“ __, 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Au —

Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Morton Isaac Hyson, M.D., Respondent


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada Seate Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559




Dated this day of , 2020.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:
Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attomey for the Investigative Committee
Dated this dayof_, 2020.

JOHN COTTON & ASSOCIATES, LTD.

By:
Katherine Turpen, Esq.
Attomeys for Respondent
Dated this day of , 2020.

W ptm Earth er) ty

7 Morton Isaac Hyson, M.DRespondent

7 of7

Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive


ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the foregoing Settlkement Agreement (Case No. 20-8616-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 4th day of
December, 2020, with the final total amount of costs due of five thousand four hundred nineteen
dollars and ninety-six cents ($5,419.96).
DATED this 4h _ day of December, 2020.

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D.,
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

EXHIBIT 2

EXHIBIT 2
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
a a a
In the Matter of the License of: License No. 6062
MORTON ISAAC HYSON, M.D., FI LE D
JUN 16 2021

Respondent.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEPSTAL EXAMINERS
* 0

By:
ORDER REMOVING CONDITIONS FROM LICENSE

Morton Isaac Hyson, M.D. (Dr. Hyson), License No. 6062, personally appeared in

Las Vegas, Nevada, before the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board) at its regularly
scheduled meeting on June 4, 2021, requesting removal of all conditions and restrictions on his
medical license.

After considering the request, the Board enters the following order:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that all conditions and restrictions be removed from
Dr. Hyson’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada, and, thereby, Dr. Hyson has an
unrestricted license.

IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDERED that Case No. 20-8616-1 be remanded back to

the Board’s Investigative Committee for further consideration.

DATED this \S ay of June, 2021.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

RACHAKONDA'D. PRABH
President of the Board


EXHIBIT 3

EXHIBIT 3
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BEFORE THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

KREK SK

In the Matter of Licensee: License No. 6062
MORTON HYSON, M.D.,
Respondent.

WITNESS AFFIDAVIT. om |

I, PY being first duly sworn, declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
State of Nevada that the following assertions are true to the best of my knowledge and:

1, I am a resident of Nevada over the age of 18 years old.

2. I visited the office of Morton Hyson, M.D. on February 7, 2022. I was referred to Dr.
Hyson by the office of Carl Williams, M.D. for a neurological test. Throughout my visits I referred
to Dr. Hyson as “doctor” or “sir”, During this short visit, I provided new patient paperwork, the test
was explained to me by Dr. Hyson and there was no physical contact with him, I scheduled an
appointment for February 9, 2022 to have my test performed.

3. During the appointment on February 9, 2022, I checked in with reception and was
seen by Dr. Hyson for my test, Dr. Hyson explained it was a two (2) part test and indicated an
associate of his would perform the first part of the test and he would perform the second part of the
test. During my visit I was very uncomfortable with the unusually high number of compliments to
my clothes, glasses and nails that Dr. Hyson was continually giving me. My clothing that I wore
during this visit was relatively the same as the clothes I was wearing during my first visit.

4. During my appointment on February 9, 2022, I underwent the first portion of the test
with Dr. Hyson’s associate. Once the first part of the test was concluded, Dr. Hyson’s associate left
the room and Dr. Hyson was to perform the second part of the test.

/Tf

9600 Gateway Drive
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521


Co


5. Dr. Hyson’s associate asked me to disrobe from the waist up once he left the room
and provided a hospital gown to cover myself. Before the associate left, Dr. Hyson abruptly came
into the room as if he had been sitting outside eavesdropping and the associate made his way out. I
remained in my shirt and Dr. Hyson robed me over my shirt himself while inappropriately caressing
my arms which made me very uncomfortable. Dr. Hyson performed his version and portion of this
test by pricking my arm five (5) times with needles without prepping my skin for penetration of
needles. My arm was bleeding after the test and he used paper towels to clean the wounds, spreading
blood all over my arm. After the test was over, I sat at the bench in the room with my legs crossed
waiting for further instructions.

6. Dr. Hyson sat close to me and caressed the top of my foot. While caressing my foot,
he asked me a question to which I responded “yes, sir” and he stated “there is no reason for you to
call me sir, you can call me daddy.” At that moment, I got up from the bench and grabbed my
belongings. He then proceeded to come close for a hug, his hand reached under my clothing and
caressed the side of my body and the side of my breast. He then came close to my face to kiss me, I
turned my head and he landed on my cheek. I pushed him away and said “‘we are done here.”

7. I then headed to the door, he approached me and pulled out a large wad of cash from
his back pocket and peeled off a couple hundred dollars. He shoved the money in my hand and
walked me to the reception desk while pressuring me to come back for another visit. He stood with
me, uncomfortably, at the reception desk until someone at the desk acknowledged me. I made
another appointment under the pressure from the receptionist, but had no intention of keeping that
appointment.

‘Tf
/T/
/T/
{/1
/T/
{T/

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


8. When I visited my surgeon’s office, the test results were almost impossible to get

from Dr. Hyson’s office. I later underwent a second test that was very dissimilar from the test Dr.

Hyson performed.
Further your Affiant sayeth naught. >
STATE OF_WNaxada )
) ss.
COUNTY OF Clare )

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me by

May , 2022,
Notary Public

a DEBRA FOSTER
Ta : Notary Public, State of Nevada

Appointment No, 17-3449a4
My Appt. Expires Oct 21, 2025

