OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

wee KK

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 22-8616-1
Against: FI LED
MO) , M.D.. P
IRTON ISAAC HYSON, M.D., SEP 16 2022
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MED; EXAMINERS
By:__§ AK

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, J.D., Senior Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Morton Isaac Hyson, M.D., (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attorney, Katherine L. Turpen, Esq., of the law firm of John Cotton & Associates,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. BACKGROUND

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act) to practice medicine in
Nevada. His license was originally issued on July 1, 1990 (License No. 6062).

2. On August 24, 2022, in Case No. 22-8616-1, the IC filed a formal First Amended
Complaint (First Amended Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice
Act. Specifically, the First Amended Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(p),
Engaging in Unprofessional and Unsafe Conduct (Count I), and one (1) violation of NRS

630.306(b)(1), Deceptive Conduct (Count II). By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.



a

By

lon-|

1s)

zh,

aati

aieae

Bre


gs

E

fo}


to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

3. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this First Amended Complaint, has
reviewed and understands this First Amended Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult
with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of this First Amended Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the First Amended Complaint. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States
Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law
(OML), which is contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), which is contained in NRS Chapters 233B and 622A. These rights include the right to a
formal hearing on the allegations in the First Amended Complaint, the right to representation by
counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to
confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings
of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to
judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

5. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of|
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

‘1


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

owe ON


B. TERMS & CONDITIONS

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the First Amended Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms and conditions:

Ll. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the First Amended
Complaint has been, a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing _and_Intelligent_Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights, In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the First
Amended Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the First Amended Complaint,
adjudication of the allegations set forth in the First Amended Complaint, and imposition of any
disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the
allegations of the First Amended Complaint as set out by this Agreement, without a hearing or any
further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the First Amended Complaint remain unproven.

Respondent acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent

3 0f7


G28
seis
Baze
agg
3 C4
zZ

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC
acknowledges Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the First
Amended Complaint have merit and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the
costs of hearing and potential subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to
proceed to hearing, he has evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the
counts/claims alleged in the First Amended Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the
matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses,
expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this First Amended Complaint
pending against Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding
that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice
Act. Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(p), Engaging in
Unprofessional and Unsafe Conduct (Count I), and one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(b)(1),
Deceptive Conduct (Count II)

b. Respondent’s license shall be immediately revoked. Pursuant to NRS
622A.410(1), Respondent may not apply for reinstatement of his medical license for a period of
one (1) year from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and approval of this Agreement as
an Order of the Board. Pursuant to NRS 622A.410, the Board will use its discretion and consider
whether Respondent has complied with the listed factors, if Respondent applies for reinstatement.
The Board is not required to reinstate Respondent’s license if he fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section and the Board reinstates Respondent’s license, it has discretion to
impose any conditions, limitations or restrictions on the license as it deems necessary.

c. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter upon the Board’s acceptance, adoption, and
approval of this Agreement as an Order of the Board, the total amount being One Thousand Four
Hundred Seventy-Three Dollars and Three Cents ($1,473.03). This Board order for the payment

of costs shall be immediately stayed, until which time as Respondent reapplies for licensure, at

40f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


which time, Respondent is ordered to pay the aforementioned costs and fees within sixty (60)
days.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

e. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, ‘and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this First Amended Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval
and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex-parté, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the First Amended
Complaint and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC

and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board

5 of7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Uk Oo ND

a

Co em NN


meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be
addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the First Amended Complaint shall be dismissed with
prejudice.

9. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this First Amended Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall
not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the party’s consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by

the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice

60f7

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board:of Medical Examines

9600 Gareway Drive

Rena, Nevada 39521
(775) 688-2559


BNRRRRBRSRESGSWVRBARFSER STS

medicine in Nevada pending an Ordet to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to. pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may:
result in:additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS:630.3065(2)(a),
Further, Respondent's failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid.

as a. condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

GLLEARL LLY
ATHERINE L. TURPEN, ESQ.
900 West Sahara, Suite 200

By:.

DONALD K; WHITE, J.D,
Senior Depuity. General Counsel,

9600 Gateway Drive as Vegas, NV 89117

Reno, NV 89521 Tel: (702) 832-5909

Tel: (775) 688-2559 Email: kturpen@jhcottonlaw.com.
Email: ite@m« Attorney for Respondent

Attorhey for the Investigative Committee

DATED tug” day of, 2022..

MORTON ISAAC MY$ON, M.D;,
Respondent

of:7

ayeerepn tre

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


BNRRPEBBRESSSERL_ARABZRESERRS

medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid

as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

DATED this LY aay of boyyst-

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDIGA
E S

By:

DO K. WHITE, J.D.
Senior Deputy General Counsel

9600 Gateway Drive Las Vegas, NV 891 7

Reno, NV 89521
Tel: (775) 6 6a: 2559
: dbo

DATED this day of

By:

Tel: (702) 832-5909
Email: ktw

2022.

MORTON ISAAC HYSON, M._D.,

Respondent

7of7

mlaw.com

Attorney for Respondent

_
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

wn

Xn


ORDER
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case No. 22-8616-1)
was approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 16th day of
September, 2022.
DATED this 16th day of September, 2022.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL
EXAMINERS

VICTOR M. MURO, M.D.
Board President

