rT

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


Case No. 12-6960-1

FILED
MAR -7 2014

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By:

In the Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against

DONALD DEAN YARBRO, JR., M.D.,

Respondent.

Nee

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the
Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed
of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and
Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., Board General Counsel and counsel for the IC, and
Donald Dean Yarbro, M.D. (Respondent), and David J. Mortensen, Esq., counsel for Respondent,
as follows:

WHEREAS, on January 23, 2014, the Board’s IC filed a First Amended Complaint in the
above-referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630, to wit: Count I,
malpractice, the failure of a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or
knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances, a violation of NRS 630.301(4) and
NAC 630.040 and Count II, the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical
records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1);

MI


WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the First Amended Complaint, reviewed
it, understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his above-identified counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the First Amended Complaint, and Respondent is fully
aware concerning his rights and defenses to the First Amended Complaint, as well as the possible
sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has violated one or more
provisions of the MPA;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled,
and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the
First Amended Complaint filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate
charges of violations of the MPA and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation _by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified legal counsel in this matter and has had
ample opportunity to review this Agreement, the First Amended Complaint filed in this matter and
the related factual basis with said legal counsel, David J. Mortensen, Esq. Respondent covenants
and agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly, and


intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory
rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceedings on
the First Amended Complaint filed herein, the defense of said First Amended Complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said First Amended Complaint. Respondent further agrees that the
matter of the First Amended Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.
In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and
effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630,
NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the proceeding on the First Amended Complaint filed herein.

4, Consent _to Entry of Order. Respondent concedes only that the Board has
sufficient evidence to proceed with its First Amended Complaint against him, but does not
concede or admit to such allegations, which he expressly denies, and which, but for his desire to
reach this compromise, he would contest at the formal hearing of this matter. Accordingly, in
order to resolve the matter without incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the First Amended Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees’ that the Board may issue an order
finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA,
and agrees:

a. The Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of
NRS 630.3062(1), as set forth in Count II of the First Amended Complaint;

b. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

' All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court
proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


c. Respondent shall complete six (6) hours of Continuing Medical Education
(CME) in electronic health records, pre-approved by the Board, in addition to the normal amount
of CME required for licensure, within one (1) year of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this
Agreement;

d. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse to the Board the sum
of $1,395.13, the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute
this matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the
Board within six (6) months of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement,

e. The Board shall dismiss Count I; and,

f. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the First Amended Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the
course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the
IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who
would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts

and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the


First Amended Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
First Amended Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel
agree that Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement
is discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case
be closed.

8. Effect _of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent
covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either
party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the

Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.




11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply with Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving
this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this [% day of FPbyvav ¥f, 2014. Neary , 2014.

ES
By: ~ By:
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq. E sq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee lorney f$rRespondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Bonald Dean Yarbro, ay) Respondent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of March 2014, with the final total amount of
costs due of $1,395.13.

Herein fy Gack Jor

Michael JFischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

