

15.



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KRKRK SK

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 13-11856-1 &

) ET 1856-2
Complaint Against ) TLED

NAVNEET N. SHARDA, M.D., ) SEP ~ 5 20t4

) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. ) By: MEDJSAL EXAMINERS
) :

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of
Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Sue Lowden, and Bashir Chowdhry, M.D. in the above-captioned
matters, by and through Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
and Navneet N. Sharda, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.,
as follows:

WHEREAS, on May 13, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaints in Case Number
13-11856-1 charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant
to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630, to wit: Count I, one (1) count of failure to
maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of a patient, one (1) violation of NRS 630.3062(1); and Count II, one (1) count
of malpractice, defined by NAC 630.040 as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient, to use
the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances, one (1)
violation of NRS 630.301(4); and

WHEREAS, on July 22, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaints in Case Number

13-11856-2 charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant


to the MPA, to wit: Count I, one (1) count of failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, one (1)
violation of NRS 630.3062(1); Count II, one (1) count of engaging in conduct that brings the
medical profession into disrepute, one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(9); and Count III, one (1)
count of charging for visits to the physician’s office that did not occur or for services that were not
rendered, one (1) violation of NRS 630.305(1)(d); and

WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the formal Complaints, reviewed them,
understands them, and consulted with above-identified counsel concerning the nature and
significance of the formal Complaints. Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the formal Complaints, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the
Board finds and concludes that he violated one or more provisions of the MPA; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA
and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to,
the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated

below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.



NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matters, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaints
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified counsel herein, whom Respondent
covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these circumstances, and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into
this Agreement after full consultation with and upon advice of above-identified counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the
advice of above-identified counsel, waives all rights in connection with this Agreement, and the
terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding that Respondent
knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B,
and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection
with the proceedings on the formal Complaints filed herein, the defense of said formal
Complaints, the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaints, and the imposition of
sanctions.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaints herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or

more instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the MPA.


5. Consent _to Entry of Order. Respondent does not concede or admit to the

allegations contained in the formal Complaints against him, which he expressly denies, and which,
but for his desire to reach this compromise, he would contest at the formal hearing on these
matters. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary proceedings pending against him without
incurring any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the formal Complaints, Respondent
hereby agrees! that the Board may issue an Order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that
is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: one (1) count of failure to maintain timely,
legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a
patient, one violation of NRS 630.3062(1), as set forth in Count I of the formal Complaints in
Case Number 13-11856-1; and one (1) count of failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, one violation
of NRS 630.3062(1), as set forth in Count I of the formal Complaints in Case Number 13-11856-
2, and agrees that:

a. Respondent shall receive a public reprimand;

b. Respondent shall complete twelve (12) hours of Continuing Medical
Education (CME), in person, regarding the subject of medical records and/or ethics, within one (1)
year of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board. The
aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly
imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada and shall be approved
by the Board prior to their completion;

Cc. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of Three
Thousand Four Hundred One and 50/100 Dollars ($3,401.50), the current amount of the fees and
costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute these matters, along with the costs to
conclude these matters, if any. The costs shall be paid to the Board within one (1) year of the

Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement;

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said
agreements and admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of
another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, or any
other state or federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.




d. The remaining count in Case Number 13-11856-1 shall be dismissed;

e. The remaining counts in Case Number 13-11856-2 shall be dismissed; and
f. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.
6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of these investigations, this Agreement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaints pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaints, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaints or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the

IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered


herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the cases.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving
this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.

Mf

7, o>





Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action

being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with

NRS 630.3065(2}(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

apreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this/ 7” day of 2014.

By:

Erin’L, Albri
Attorney fo:

sq.
Investigative Committee

Dated this_/ 3/day of Atypuad, 2014.

e if f t ——
L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.
Attomey for Respondent

NAVNEET N. SHARDA, M.D., Respondent
Dated this _} g day of 3S 2014.



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 5th day of September 2014, with the final total

amount of costs due of $3,401.50.

Michael Fischer, M.D., Président
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

