

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 13-11344-1

Complaint Against )
; FILED

SEAN PHONG-QUOC SU M.LD., ) MAR - 7 2014

Respondent. ) NENeDty BL EXAMINERS
) By: :
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D. by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Sean Phong-Quoc Su, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on August 21, 2013, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the above-referenced
matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act, Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630, to wit: an eleven-count violation of
NRS 630.3062(1); more specifically, failure to maintain timely, accurate and complete medical records
relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of patients; and an eight-count violation of NRS 630.301(4);
more specifically, the failure to treat a patient with the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used
under similar circumstances; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the formal Complaint, understands
it, and has been afforded the opportunity to consult with counsel concerning the nature and significance of |
the formal Complaint, and Respondent fully understands his rights and defenses regarding the formal
MI

om Nd HUH


Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he
has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but not
limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of
witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions of law, and order regarding a final decision
by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based upon his understanding of the relevant facts and circumstances,
and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all of his rights under the United
States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada
Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a hearing on the charges and a
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he desires to settle and resolve this matter of the
formal Complaint against him by way of and in accordance with this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and scheduled, and that the
IC will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms, covenants
and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be
binding and enforceable upon him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below
shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to disqualification of adjudicating
panel members in paragraph number 8, and he will be provided with an opportunity to defend himself
against the charges against him at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws.



NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending formal Complaint and charges brought
against him by the Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the
following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint filed in
the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, subject
to jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is not represented by counsel, but Respondcat
covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently, without the
advice of counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and
conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, voluntarily and intelligently waives all rights arising
under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter
630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the
proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint, the adjudication
of the charges in said formal Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions, and Respondent further agrees
that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the
right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees
that the Board’s IC had a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or more instances of|
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act. All
admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent
related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
said admissions by Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of
another state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal
court proceeding, or any other state or federal court. Should the Board not approve this agreement,

Respondent reserves the right to fully defend against the allegations in the complaint at a formal



hearing. Respondent fully reserves his rights to defend against the allegations in the complaint, should
they be raised in any subsequent civil suit to which the Board is not a party.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees, and does not contest, that an order may be entered herein by
the Board finding that there is evidence Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: that in treating the patients referenced in the original formal
Complaint filed by the IC, Respondent failed to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical
records, and as a result, Respondent committed ten violations of NRS 630.3062(1). Additionally,
Respondent failed to treat his patients with the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances, and as a result, Respondent committed four violations of NRS 630.301(4). For
these violations, Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, fined in the amount of $2,500.00, and shall
reimburse the Board the reasonable fees and costs incurred in the investigation and prosecution of this case
in the current amount of $4,611.72, plus any additional costs that may be accrued subsequent in the
disposition of this matter. The aforementioned fine and costs are to be paid to the Board within one
year of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement by the Board. A final accounting of
any additional costs will be provided to Respondent in the entry of the Board’s order relating to the
matter.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Settlement Agreement, the Respondent,
for himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in
their individual and representative capacities, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action,
suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or
equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons
or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the



Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the
formal Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the
panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants
and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or
opportunity to be heard on his part, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the formal Complaint, the allegations in the formal
Complaint, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the formal Complaint, and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal Complaint or the proceedings herein
against Respondent.

8. Effect_of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will enter
an order consistent with the terms noted previously in paragraph number 4, and dismissing the
underlying formal Complaint.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,
accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that, not
withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad
faith.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and
enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or
tribunal having jurisdiction. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in

additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for violation of an order of the Board


BRRARBBRHEB SSE WR AEBRKS

in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Additionally, failure to pay any fine or cost ordered herein
may also result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee or cost.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either
party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing

party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

Dated this “3 Hiay of February, 2014. Dated this _[ c day of February, 2014.
Edward O. Cousineau, Esq. Sean Phong-Quoc Su, M.D.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Respondent

of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7 day of March 2014, with the final total amount of
costs due of $4,611.72.

tac Lp ke Yor

Michael J.®fScher, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

