

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
KER KS

In re Matters and ) Case No. 14-12252-1

Complaint Against )

FILED
VICTOR R. BRUCE, M.D., ) DEC - 8 2014

) NEVAD

Respondent. ) By: MEDICAL EXAMINERS.”
) "“Co==

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and _ between the

Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board),
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF,
Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and counsel for the IC, and
Victor R. Bruce, M.D. (Respondent), by and through John A. Hunt, Esq., counsel for Respondent,

as follows:

WHEREAS, a Sealed Indictment was filed on December 11, 2013 (“Indictment”), in the

matter of United States of America v. Victor Bruce, MD, United States District Court, District of

Nevada, Case No. 2:13-cr-0041-APG-CWH. Respondent provided the Board with timely notice

of the Indictment;

WHEREAS, on February 13, 2014, the Board’s IC at the time filed a Complaint in case
no. 14-12252-1 against Respondent (relative to matters unrelated to the Indictment) charging

Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Nevada


Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630;

WHEREAS, following extensions of time, on or about April 24, 2014, Respondent filed

an Answer to the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1 denying the allegations contained therein;

WHEREAS, a Judgment in a Criminal Case was filed on October 23, 2014, in the matter

of United States of America v. Victor Bruce, MD, United States District Court, District of

Nevada, Case No. 2:13-cr-0041-APG-CWH, wherein it notes Respondent has plead guilty to
count (1) of the Indictment and adjudicated guilty of 21 USC §§ 846, 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C),
conspiracy to distribute oxycodone. The Judgment in a Criminal Case also, in part, sentences
Respondent to forty-six (46) months of imprisonment, requires Respondent to surrender for
service of sentence before 12 p.m. on January 16, 2015, and upon release from imprisonment, sets
forth supervised release for three (3) years, subject to certain conditions. Respondent provided the
Board with timely notice of the Judgment in a Criminal Case. It is important to note Respondent
has taken full responsible for issuing controlled substances on more than one occasion to patients
not of record and Respondent has cooperated with Federal authority in every manner during this
investigation. Respondent prior to this incident has no prior criminal background. Respondent

has no prior patient complaints or any prior Board actions.

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1,
reviewed it, understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his above-identified
counsel concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1, and
Respondent is fully aware concerning his rights and defenses to the Complaint, as well as the
possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has violated one

or more provisions of the MPA;

BB OO ND


WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Indictment and a copy of the
Judgment in a Criminal Case, reviewed it, understands it, and has had ample opportunity to
consult with his above-identified counsel concerning the nature and significance of the same with
regards to possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has
violated one or more provisions of the MPA as a result of the Indictment and/or Judgment in a

Criminal Case;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated

below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1 and any and all matters relating to and any
and all matters that may be charged by the Board or the Board’s IC by virtue of or in connection
with the above-referenced Indictment and/or the above-referenced Judgment in a Criminal Case,

Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the
Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1 and at all times relevant with respect to the filing of the
Indictment and the filing of the Judgment in a Criminal Case, Respondent was a physician
licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear

and adjudicate charges of violations of the MPA and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.


2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified legal counsel in this matter and has had
ample opportunity to review this Agreement, the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1, the
Indictment, the Judgment in a Criminal Case, and the related factual basis with regards to the
same with said legal counsel, John A. Hunt, Esq. Respondent covenants and agrees that he

knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants,

and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly, and
intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other
statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the
proceedings on the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1, the Indictment, the Judgment in a Criminal
Case, the defense of said Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1, and the adjudication of the charges in
said Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1.

In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants, and conditions contained
herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly, and intelligently waives all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceedings herein and/or any
and all matters relating to and any and all matters that may be charged by the Board or the Board’s
IC by virtue of or in connection with the above-referenced Indictment and/or the above-referenced

Judgment in a Criminal Case, the defense of the same in this administrative context.

4. Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent concedes only that the Board has

sufficient evidence to proceed with its formal Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1 against him, and

that by virtue of the Indictment and/or the Judgment in a Criminal Case, the Board also has


sufficient evidence to bring additional allegations against Respondent, but does not concede or
admit to such allegations, which he expressly denies, and which, but for his desire to reach this
compromise, he would contest at a formal hearing of these matters (i.e., the Complaint in case no.
14-12252-1 as well as any and all matters that could be alleged by the Board with regards to the
Indictment and/or the Judgment in a Criminal Case). Accordingly, in order to resolve these
matters without incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to a formal Complaint,
Respondent hereby agrees’ that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the MPA, and agrees:

a. The Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: conviction of a felony relating to the practice of medicine
or the ability to practice medicine, a violation of NRS 630.301(1), as set forth in Judgment in a
Criminal Case and as was alleged in the Indictment;

b. Respondent agrees upon adoption of this Agreement, to accept a stayed
revocation of his license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada until such time as
Respondent allows his license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada to be revoked, effective
December 31, 2014. If, during the term of Respondent’s stayed revocation, the IC receives
substantial evidence that Respondent has materially breached any of the terms and conditions of
this Agreement, including but not limited to Respondent violating the prohibition of prescribing
any Schedule II, III, [V or V controlled substances, or should Respondent violate any of the terms
of his current release until he surrenders to the Federal Bureau of Prisons on January 16, 2015.
Respondent agrees the IC, without any further hearing or action by the Board, shall issue an Order
Revoking Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada. Respondent waives
any right to seek judicial review (state or federal) to reinstate his revoked license pending his

release from incarceration.

' All admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court
proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


c. Pursuant to NRS 630.352(4)(b) Respondent agrees the Board shall
administer a formal written public reprimand which will include language with is synonymous
with the terms of this Agreement.

d. Following his release from incarceration pursuant to the Judgment in the
Criminal Case, Respondent’s may petition the Board to reinstated Respondents’ license to
practice medicine in the State of Nevada pursuant to the following terms and conditions:

i. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse to the Board
the sum of $ 932. F |} , the amount of the costs incurred by the Board to
investigate and prosecute this matter, along with the costs to conclude the
matter, if any. Respondent must pay the reimbursement costs prior to
Respondent petitioning the Board for reinstatement of Respondents’ license

to practice medicine in the State of Nevada;

il. Respondent must submit proof that Respondent has complied with

required continuing education requirements while incarcerated;

iil. Respondent must submit proof that Respondent has surrender his
DEA registration and Nevada State Pharmacy license to prescribe any

Schedule II, III, IV or V controlled substances.

Iv. Respondent must submit proof that Respondent has attended and
completed a twenty-four (24) hour ethics course entitled “The PBI
Professional Boundaries Course”. However, Respondent agrees attendance
and completion of the twenty-four (24) hour ethics course entitled “The PBI
Professional Boundaries Course” may not be used by Respondent to fulfill

the normal continuing education requirements regarding ethics.



€. Pursuant to NRS 630.353(4)(a) in addition to any additional terms the
Board deems appropriate in the event the Board reinstates Respondents’ license to practice
medicine in the State of Nevada, Respondent shall be placed on probation for a period of three (3)
years. Respondent shall also comply with any terms and conditions of parole and probation

related to the case of United States of America v. Victor Bruce, MD, United States District

Court, District of Nevada, Case No. 2:13-cr-0041-APG-CWH. Within thirty (30) days of
Respondent release, Respondent shall provide a copy of this Agreement to the office of Federal
Parole and Probation. Respondent shall also execute any documents necessary authorizing the
office of Federal Parole and Probation to release any and all reports generated regarding
Respondent’s compliance with the terms and conditions of Respondent’s federal probation. Once
respondent is given written notice of his completion of his probation, Respondent shall submit the
written notice to the Investigative Committee. Upon receipt of the written notice of completion
of probation and Respondents’ completion of the three (3) years of probation the IC shall, without
any further action of the Board, authorize an Order reinstating Respondent’s license to the status
of good standing without restriction. If, during the term of Respondent’s probation, the IC
receives substantial evidence that Respondent has materially breached the terms and conditions of
his probation, Respondent agrees the IC, without any further hearing or action by the Board, shall
issue an order suspending Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada.
Thereafter, Respondent may request a hearing before the Board to reinstate his license which must
be heard within forty-five (45) days of the Order of Suspension. However, during the pendency of
the hearing before the Board, Respondent waives any right to seek judicial review (state or
federal) to reinstate his privilege to practice medicine in the State of Nevada pending a final Board

hearing.

f. Pursuant to NRS 630.353(4)(a), Respondent agrees he shall submit to the
Board any and all documentation regarding any of the terms and conditions of parole and

probation related to the case of United States of America v. Victor Bruce, MD, United States



District Court, District of Nevada, Case No. 2:13-cr-0041-APG-CWH upon Respondents’ release

from incarceration.

g. This Agreement fully and completely resolves all matters contained in the
Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1;

h. This Agreement fully and completely resolves all matters that have or may
be alleged by the Board or the Board’s IC against Respondent with regards to the Indictment
and/or the Judgment in a Criminal Case; and

1. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of

or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the matters referenced herein and above. In the course of seeking Board
approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate
directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this
case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his

counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts



and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1, the Indictment, the Judgment in a Criminal Case, and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to the same or the proceedings herein against
Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the
Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that

may be addressed to the IC or its counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case
involving the Complaint in case no. 14-12252-1, as well as any matter involving the Indictment,

and the Judgment in a Criminal Case, be closed.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of

bad faith.


9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent

and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

11. Failure to Comply with Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in additional disciplinary action
being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

bY
Dated this _/ 1 day of _Décem htc 2014. Dated this 25" day of vi , 2014.

Erin L. AX, eg A. Hunt, Esq.
Attorney for the stigative Committee -torney for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

J FELL

Victor R. Bruce, M.D., Respondent

H:\WDDOCS\3598\37072\LV 149950.DOC




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 5th day of December 2014, with the final total
amount of costs due of $932.91.

Michael 4 ischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

