Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559





23 |



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 14-10032-1
Complaint Against ) FILED
MARYANNE D. PHILLIPS, M.D., ) APR 22 2014
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EX
Respondent By: La » EXAMINERS
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), composed at the time of filing of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, by and
through Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Maryanne D. Phillips, M.D. (Respondent), violated the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 (Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its formal
Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

FACTUAL BACKGROUND

The following facts are pertinent to a determination on this matter.

1. Respondent has been licensed by the Board since December 21, 1995, pursuant to
the provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

2. Respondent is currently licensed in Active-Probation status (License No. 7635) in
the state of Nevada.

3. On January 28, 2011, the IC filed a formal Complaint against Respondent charging
her with four (4) violations of the Medical Practice Act.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


4, On June 8, 2012, the Board adopted a Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement

| (Agreement) in which Respondent agreed that the Board may find she violated two (2) counts of

the formal Complaint and agreed that her license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada be
revoked, with said revocation stayed for thirty-six (36) months subject to the terms and conditions
outlined in the Agreement.

5. Respondent provided medical care, including diagnosis and treatment of chronic
pain, for Patients A through K. The true identities of Patients A through K are not disclosed in
this Complaint to protect their identities; however, their identities are disclosed in the Patient
Designation contemporaneously served on Respondent with this Complaint.

6. The Medical Practice Act and related regulations establish the standards of practice
for the treatment of pain and adopt by reference the “Model Guidelines for the Use of Controlled
Substances for the Treatment of Pain’! (Model Guidelines). The Model Guidelines establish
adequate treatment policies for the treatment of chronic pain, including the use of controlled
substances. The Model Guidelines establish that physicians have a responsibility to minimize the
potential for abuse and diversion of controlled substances and to follow related pain treatment
policies.

7. The Model Guidelines outline the criteria by which the Board will evaluate
Respondent's treatment of pain in Patients A through K. The Model Guidelines require, at a
minimum, that a medical history and physical examination be obtained, evaluated and
documented in the patient’s medical record. The medical record should document the nature and
intensity of the pain, current and past treatments for pain, underlying or coexisting diseases or
conditions, the effect of the pain on physical and psychological function, history of substance
abuse, and the presence of one or more recognized medical indications for the use of a controlled
substance. The medical record should contain a written treatment plan that states objectives that
will be used to determine treatment success and should indicate if any further diagnostic
evaluations or treatments are planned. The medical record should document the physician

discussed the risks and benefits of the use of controlled substances with the patient, persons

' In 2004, the Federation of State Medical Boards changed the title of the Model Guidelines to the “Model Policy for
the Use of Controlled Substances for the Treatment of Pain.”


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

i1

i5




designated by the patient or with the patient’s guardian. If the patient is at high risk for
medication abuse or has a history of substance abuse, the physician should enter into a written
treatment agreement with the patient. If the patient’s progress is unsatisfactory, the physician
should assess the appropriateness of continued use of controlled substances and should consider
the use of other treatment modalities.

8. Respondent failed to follow the Model Guidelines in her medical care and
treatment of Patients A through K.

9. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through K demonstrates that the
charts lack any documentation and/or evidence demonstrating the nature and intensity of each
patient’s pain, the effect of pain on each patient’s ability to function and the presence of
recognized medical indications in each patient justifying the use of controlled substances.

10. <A review of the medical charts for Patients A through K demonstrates that
Respondent adjusted each patient’s prescribed medication based solely on each patient’s
subjective complaints and not on any significant objective clinical correlation of physical
examination, uses of ancillary services and/or treatment modalities.

11. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through K demonstrates that
Respondent failed to consider other treatment modalities or adjuvant therapies prior to prescribing
controlled substances to Patients A through K.

12. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through K demonstrates that
Respondent failed to check prior narcotic use for Patients A through K through the prescription
monitoring program (PMP) offered by the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy.

13. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through K, demonstrates that
Respondent never ordered Patients A through K to submit to random urine drug screens to
monitor each patient’s controlled substance use and compliance.

14. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through K demonstrates that
Respondent’s care and treatment of each patient did not resuit in any significant improvement in
patient function or pain control, the diagnoses and/or presumed pain generators were nebulous and


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559




unsubstantiated, and the follow-up and treatment plan primarily consisted of monthly controlled
substance prescription refills.
COUNT I
(Medical Records Violation)

15. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

16. | NRS 630.3062(1) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

U7. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to maintain accurate and/or complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of Patients A through K when she failed to document in the patients’ charts that she had
performed musculoskeletal exams, when she failed ‘to document in the patients’ charts the nature
and intensity of the patients’ pain, when she failed to document in the patients’ charts the effect of
pain on the patients’ ability to function, when she failed to document in the patients’ charts the
presence of a recognized medical indication for the use of controlled substances, when she failed
to document in the patients’ charts that she required the patients to submit to urine drug screens,
and when she failed to document in the patients’ charts that she reviewed the patients’ prior
narcotic use through the PMP.

18. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT I
(Malpractice)

19, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

20. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating

disciplinary action against a licensee.

Hl


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559





21. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

22, As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
treating Patients A through K when she failed to follow the Model Guidelines when prescribing
controlled substances to Patients A through K.

23. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IT
(Prohibited Professional Conduct)

24, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

25. NRS 630,306(2)(b) provides that engaging in any conduct that the Board has
determined is a violation of the standards of practice established by regulation of the Board is
grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

26. NAC 630.230(1)(k) provides that a licensed physician shall not engage in the
practice of writing prescriptions for controlled substances to treat acute or chronic pain in a
manner that deviates from the policies set forth in the Model Guidelines.

27. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
practice of writing prescriptions for controlled substances to treat acute or chronic pain deviates
from the policies set forth in the Model Guidelines as follows: the medical records for Patients A
through K do not document the nature and intensity of the pain, the medical records for Patients A
through K do not document the effect of the pain on physical and psychological function, the
medical records for Patients A through K do not document the presence of one or more recognized
medical indications for the use of controlled substances, Respondent did not enter into or consider
entering into a written treatment plan with Patients A through K, Respondent based the patients’
need for controlled substances on the subjective needs of Patients A through K, Respondent failed


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

Al


to consider the use of other therapeutic modalities for Patients A through K, and Respondent
failed to refer Patients A through K to determine the etiology of pain.

28. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an
Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3); |

3, That the Board determine the sanctions it will impose if it finds Respondent
violated the Medical Practice Act;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent, in writing, its findings of
tact, conclusions of law and order, which shall include the sanctions imposed; and

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises. é

f

A
DATED this-22* day of April, 2014.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:_CA¢-g" Lt (Of Efe
Erin L. Albright, Ee.
General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

Be OW bb




VERIFICATION

| STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and

correct.

Dated this 22 4 day of A, wll , 2014.

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that Iam employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 23" day of April 2014; I served a filed copy of COMPLAINT, PATIENT DESIGNATION &
FINGERPRINT INFORMATION, via USPS e-certified mail to the following:

Maryanne Phillips, M.D.
2595 S. Cimarron Rd., Ste. 104
Las Vegas, NV 89117

Dated this 23 day of April, 2014.

Vi T Dow Arve

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

