

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kRkEKS

Case No. 14-18131-1

FILED
DEC - 8 2014

NEVADA STATE BOARD
3 MEDICAL EXAMINERS”
Ye

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

In the Matter of the Investigation of

DANA R. MARKS, M.D., )
License No. 9358 )


(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt,
M.D., Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., in the above-captioned
matter, by and through Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, and
Dana R. Marks, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on September 19, 2014, the Board’s IC filed an Order of Summary
Suspension pursuant to Nevada Revised Statute (NRS) section 630.326 in the above-captioned
matter after reviewing evidence and information which demonstrated that on or about August 30,
2014, Respondent presented in an intoxicated state approximately one and one-half hours late for
his scheduled work shift at Banner Churchill Community Hospital. At the request of hospital
staff, Respondent submitted to a blood alcohol and drug test. The results of the blood alcohol and
drug test demonstrated that Respondent’s blood alcohol content was .223; and

WHEREAS, Respondent received a copy of the Order of Summary Suspension, reviewed
it, understands it, and consulted with competent, above-identified counsel concerning the nature
and significance of the Order of Summary Suspension. Respondent is fully advised concerning
his rights and defenses to the Order of Summary Suspension; and

If



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that had the IC filed a complaint alleging
any violation of the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), i.e., NRS Chapter 630 and Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630, he would have certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the MPA and the
Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including, but not limited to, the
right to a formal hearing on the allegations against him, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions and an order regarding a final
decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is
adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board,
but that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
meeting duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval
of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges, if any, alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Order of Summary
Suspension filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.



2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by above-identified counsel herein, whom Respondent
covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these circumstances, and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he knowingly, willingly, and intelligently enters into
this Agreement after full consultation with and upon advice of above-identified counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the
advice of above-identified counsel, waives all rights in connection with this Agreement, and the
terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding that Respondent
knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B,
and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection
with the proceedings on the Order of Summary Suspension filed herein, the defense of said Order
of Summary Suspension, and the adjudication of the allegations in said Order of Summary
Suspension.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the Order of Summary Suspension herein may be
settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further
proceedings, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or
more instances of conduct that may be grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the
MPA.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of the summary

suspension currently in place against him without incurring any further costs and expense of
providing a defense to the Order of Summary Suspension, Respondent hereby agrees that the
suspension of his medical license shall be lifted immediately upon the approval and filing of this

Agreement subject to the following terms and conditions:




a. Respondent shall enroll, for a minimum of twelve (12) months, in weekly,
individual treatment to address substance abuse issues with Murray Brooks, LADC, at
LifePath Recovery LLC, P.O. Box 919, Carson City, NV 89702. The weekly, individual
treatment program shall perform random alcohol/drug urine tests on Respondent at least
four (4) times per month during Respondent’s enrollment in weekly, individual treatment;

b. Within ten (10) days of his enrollment in weekly, individual treatment with
Murray Brooks, LADC, at LifePath Recovery LLC, Respondent shall execute a HIPAA
compliant release in favor of the Board to allow Mr. Brooks and LifePath Recovery LLC
to provide status reports regarding Respondent’s treatment directly to the Board;

c. Respondent shall also join a positive peer support group (i.e., Alcoholics
Anonymous) to support his endeavors at sobriety. Respondent shall attend a minimum of
two (2) support groups per week for a total of twelve (12) months. On the fifth day of
every month, Respondent shall submit proof of his prior month’s attendance directly to the
Board;

d. Respondent shall be solely responsible for any costs and fees associated
with his compliance with all terms and conditions of this Agreement;

e. If the IC finds that Respondent has violated any terms or conditions of this
Agreement, it may immediately summarily suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada and shall set a date for a hearing to be held within forty-five (45) days
to determine whether the summary suspension of Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in the state of Nevada shall remain in effect.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have

Hl



or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the Order of Summary Suspension currently in effect against Respondent.
In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel
for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the adjudicating members of the
Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
Order of Summary Suspension, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to
the Order of Summary Suspension or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its
counsel agree that Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this
Agreement is discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the
IC or its counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this Agreement to be entered
herein, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case be closed,
subject to the provisions in Paragraph 5.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing

contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek



acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges, if any, against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of
bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Failure to comply with the terms recited herein

may result in disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of
the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to

reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this we of Nerve boor2014.
win EQ ea aor

/ Lyn E. Beggs, Esq. |

Attorney for thé Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Dated this day of , 2014.
Agel
KSVED~, Respon dent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 5th day of December 2014.

Michael J(Fischer, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

