OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



10 |

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 14-12104-1


| Complaint Against ) FILED

| )

| PETER H. PHILANDER, M.D., ) JUN - 3 2014

Respondent. MED AL EXAPINERS.
) By: etn
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), composed at the time of filing of Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Sue Lowden and Bashir
Chowdhry, M.D., by and through Erin L. Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for
the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that Peter H. Philander, M.D. (Respondent), violated
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code
(NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its formal Complaint,
stating the IC’s charges and allegations as follows:

FACTUAL BACKGROUND

The following facts are pertinent to a determination on this matter.

1. Respondent has been licensed by the Board since February 5, 1998, pursuant to the
provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

2. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 8535) in the state of
Nevada. His specialty listed with the Board is family practice. Respondent is not certified by the
American Board of Medical Specialties, or any other entity, in pain management.

3, Respondent provided medical care, including diagnosis and treatment of chronic

pain, for Patients A through F. The true identities of Patients A through F are not disclosed in this

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



Complaint to protect their identities; however, their identities are disclosed in the Patient
Designation contemporaneously served on Respondent with this Complaint.

4. The Medical Practice Act and related regulations establish the standards of practice
for the treatment of pain and adopt by reference the “Model Policy for the Use of Controlled
Substances for the Treatment of Pain’ (Model Policy). The Model Policy establishes adequate
treatment policies for the treatment of chronic pain, including the use of controlled substances.
The Model Policy establishes that physicians have a responsibility to minimize the potential for
abuse and diversion of controlled substances and to follow related pain treatment policies.

5. The Model Policy outlines the criteria by which the Board will evaluate
Respondent’s treatment of pain in Patients A through F. The Model Policy requires, at a
minimum, that a medical history and physical examination be obtained, evaluated and
documented in the patient’s medical record. The medical record should document the nature and
intensity of the pain, current and past treatments for pain, underlying or coexisting diseases or
conditions, the effect of the pain on physical and psychological function, history of substance
abuse, and the presence of one or more recognized medical indications for the use of a controlled
substance. The medical record should contain a written treatment plan that states objectives that
will be used to determine treatment success and should indicate if any further diagnostic
evaluations or treatments are planned. The medical record should document the physician
discussed the risks and benefits of the use of controlled substances with the patient, persons
designated by the patient or with the patient’s guardian. If the patient is at high risk for
medication abuse or has a history of substance abuse, the physician should enter into a written
treatment agreement with the patient. If the patient’s progress is unsatisfactory, the physician
should assess the appropriateness of continued use of controlled substances and should consider
the use of other treatment modalities.

6. Respondent failed to follow the Model Policy in his medical care and treatment of
Patients A through F.
7. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that the

charts lack any documentation and/or evidence demonstrating the nature and intensity of each

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559




patient’s pain, the effect of pain on each patient’s ability to function and the presence of
recognized medical indications in each patient justifying the use of controlled substances.

8. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that

‘Respondent adjusted each patient’s prescribed medication based solely on each patient’s
‘subjective complaints and not on any significant objective clinical correlation of physical

‘examination, uses of ancillary services and/or treatment modalities.

9. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that
Respondent failed to consider other treatment modalities or adjuvant therapies prior to prescribing
controlled substances to Patients A through F.

10. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that
Respondent failed to check prior narcotic use for Patients A through F through the prescription
monitoring program (PMP) offered by the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy.

11. <A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that
Respondent never ordered Patients A through F to submit to random urine drug screens to monitor
each patient’s controlled substance use and compliance.

12. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that
Respondent’s care and treatment of each patient did not result in any significant improvement in
pain, the basis for the controlled substance prescriptions is unsubstantiated, and the follow-up and
treatment plan primarily consisted of monthly controlled substance prescription refills.

13. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that
Respondent did not require Patients A through F to enter into written, signed pain management
contracts with Respondent.

14. A review of the medical charts for Patients A through F demonstrates that
Respondent failed to consult pain management specialists to determine if he could treat the pain
for Patients A through F using modalities other than controlled substances.

Mf

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(715) 688-2559

{1



COUNT I
(Medical Records Violation)

15. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

16. NRS 630.3062(1) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

17. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to maintain accurate and/or complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care
of Patients A through F when he failed to document in the patients’ charts that he had performed
musculoskeletal exams, when he failed to document in the patients’ charts the nature and
intensity of the patients’ pain, when he failed to document in the patients’ charts the effect of pain
on the patients’ ability to function, when he failed to document in the patients’ charts the presence
of a recognized medical indication for the use of controlled substances, when he failed to
document in the patients’ charts that he required the patients to submit to urine drug screens, and
when he failed to document in the patients’ charts that he reviewed the patients’ prior narcotic use
through the PMP.

18. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT HU
(Malpractice)

19. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein. .

20. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

21. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

fil

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

bo







22, As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
treating Patients A through F when he failed to follow the Model Policy when prescribing
controlled substances to Patients A through F.

23. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT I
(Prohibited Professional Conduct)

24. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

25. NRS 630.306(2)(b) provides that engaging in any conduct that the Board has
determined is a violation of the standards of practice established by regulation of the Board is
grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee. |

26. NAC 630.230(1)\(k) provides that a licensed physician shall not engage in the
practice of writing prescriptions for controlled substances to treat acute or chronic pain in a
manner that deviates from the policies set forth in the Model Policy. |

27. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
practice of writing prescriptions for controlled substances to treat acute or chronic pain deviates
from the policies set forth in the Model Policy as follows: the medical records for Patients A
through F do not document the nature and intensity of the pain, the medical records for Patients A
through F do not document the effect of the pain on physical and psychological function, the
medical records for Patients A through F do not document the presence of one or more recognized
medical indications for the use of controlled substances, Respondent did not enter into or consider
entering into written treatment plans with Patients A through F, Respondent based the patients’
need for controlled substances on the subjective needs of Patients A through F, Respondent failed
to consider the use of other therapeutic modalities for Patients A through F, and Respondent failed
to refer Patients A through F to determine the etiology of their pain.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559


28. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT IV
(Practicing Beyond the Scope of Training)

29. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

30. NRS 630.306(5) provides that practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope
permitted by law or performing services that the licensee knows or has reason to know that he is
not competent to perform or which are beyond the scope of his training is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

31. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent is not
trained in pain management and he failed to follow the Model Policy when prescribing controlled
substances to Patients A through F. Therefore, Respondent was performing services that he was
not competent to perform or which were beyond the scope of his training.

32. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352. |

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an
Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine the sanctions it will impose if it finds Respondent
violated the Medical Practice Act;

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent, in writing, its findings of
fact, conclusions of law and order, which shall include the sanctions imposed; and
Hi
HI]

HI

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



5.

premises.

That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

DATED this 4 34 aay of June, 2014.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: Gin, Za

Erin L. Albright; ¥sq.
General Couns
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF CLARK 5 ~

Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the state of Nevada that she is the Chair of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that she has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, she
believes the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true,

accurate and correct.

Dated this ify day of Tone , 2014.

bowed, Coe Vlge-% **

Beverly A. Neyland, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 4" day of June 2014; I served a filed copy of COMPLAINT, PATIENT DESIGNATION &
FINGERPRINT INFORMATION, via USPS e-certified mail to the following:

Peter H. Philander, M.D.
2481 Professional Court
Las Vegas, NV 89128

Dated this 4" day of June, 2014.

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

