Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of the Investigation of Case No. 14-12899-1

FILED
MAY 3°0 2014

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

EDICAL EXAMINE

RONALD FOOTE, M.D.,

License No. 9240.

a a

STIPULATION FOR INDEFINITE SUMMARY SUSPENSION

The Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board) by and through its Investigative
Committee (IC) comprised of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chair, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU,
LUTCF, Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, has been investigating numerous and
varied complaints against Ronald Foote, M.D. (Dr. Foote). The Board believes that the current
allegations against Dr. Foote are likely violations of the March 4, 2011 settlement agreement
between the Board and Dr. Foote and the probation contained therein. By entering into this
stipulation, Dr. Foote makes no admissions at this time regarding the current allegations.

As a result of the current investigations of the Board, and in response to the complaints
received by the Board, Dr. Foote has informed the Board of his intent to enter into an addiction
recovery program (program). Dr. Foote informs the Board that the program will be for an indefinite
term of inpatient treatment until such time as he is released by the authority of his treating physicians
and/or counselors at the program.

Thus, in order to protect the public and to allow Dr. Foote to attend to his personal recovery,
the parties hereby stipulate to an indefinite suspension of Dr. Foote’s license to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada pursuant to NRS 630.326(1). By agreement of the parties, Dr. Foote’s license to

practice medicine is hereby suspended indefinitely until further order of the Board, order of the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board af Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #501

Reno, Nevada 89502





i4

(775) 688-2559


 lavestigative Committee or written agreement of the parties.

Investigative Committee or written agreement of the parties. Dr. Foote also hereby agrees to execute
a HIPAA compliant release in favor of the Board for all of his related inpatient treatment records,

L. Kristopher Rath, Esq. (Mr. Rath) represents Dr. Foote im the current Board proceedings
and confirms that Dr. Foote will be attending a program out of state as stated above and will be
unavailable to participate in any hearing or to assist his counsel in any matter pending before the
Board for an indefinite period of time. Significantly, before entering into the treatment program,
Mr. Rath confirms that Dr. Foote will be made aware that he was entitled to certain legal and
procedural protections before the Board pursuant to NRS 630.326(2).

Accordingly, Dr. Foote has authorized Mr. Rath to act on his behalf in this matter pending
before the Board including, but not limited to, the exercise of procedural protections. After
discussing the underlying factual and legal issues in this case, both parties agree that the public is
adequately protected at present by this stipulation, and that it is in the best interests of Dr, Foote and
the Board to indefinitely extend the period of the suspension of his license to practice medicine until
such time as Dr. Foote can fully participate in the decision making regarding this matter.

Therefore, Dr. Foote, individually, and by and through undersigned counsel, hereby waives
the sight to a hearing within 45 days pursuant to NRS 630.326(2) and agrees to an indefinite

suspension of his license to practice medicine in Nevada until further order of the Board, order of the

Cy 76 Van ey qe L. I istogh er Rath, Sq.
Attorney for the Inve stigative Committee  Attomey for Respondent
Ronald Foote, M.D.

UNDERSTOOD AND

Ronald Foote, M.D., Respondent

IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED this 407 day of May, 2014.

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D,
Chair

