OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

a


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR KES

In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 14-35576-1
| )

Complaint Against )
FILED

ROBERT J OSEPH AQUINO, M.D., JAN ~7 2014

Respondent. ) 3 NO AL EXAMINE RSC
) ve —
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), composed at the time of filing of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, by and
through Bradley O. Van Ry, Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a reasonable
basis to believe that Robert Joseph Aquino, M.D., (Respondent), has violated the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter
630, collectively the Medical Practice Act (MPA), hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the
IC’s charges and allegations, as follows:

i. Respondent has been licensed, by the Board with an administrative license only,
since March 5, 2010 (License No. 13440), pursuant to the provisions of the MPA. Respondent is
currently in inactive status. Respondent’s inactive status began on June 30, 2011, after being on
active status from initial licensure up through June 29, 2011.

2. Respondent was also licensed in the state of New York at the time of the incident
complained of in, this matter.

3... On or about March 7, 2013, the State of New York, Department of Health, State

Board for Professional Medical Conduct, entered a Determination and Order (Order) where

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559

il


Respondent was placed on probation for a period of one (1) year from the effective date of the
Order. A copy of the Order is attached hereto as Exhibit “1.” Simultaneously, Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in New York State was suspended and stayed for the same one (1)
year time period.

4. Certain terms and conditions of probation were ordered, including that Respondent
was barred from owning or administering a medical facility.

Count I

5. All of the above allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if
fully set forth herein.

6. NRS_ 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action, including, without
limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice any type
of medicine, taken by another state is grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

7. The disciplinary action against Respondent, including, but not limited to, the
probation and related conditions levied against Respondent by New York State on March 7, 2013
constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

8. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the
Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

Count II

9. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

10. NRS 630.301(9) provides that the engaging in conduct that brings the medical
profession into disrepute is grounds for initiating disciplinary action against a licensee.

11. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent's acts
leading to the imposition of probation, and the imposition of probation by New York state, bring
the medical profession into disrepute.

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Mf

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(715) 688-2559

i1


WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2, That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early Case
Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it agrees upon to impose if it finds and
concludes that there has been a violation or violations of the MPA committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed; and,

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these
premises.

DATED this day of January, 2014.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

- General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE ) ~

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

Dated this (gt? day of January, 2014.

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(778) 688-2559

i1

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 7" day of January 2014; I served a filed copy of COMPLAINT & FINGERPRINT
INFORMATION, via USPS e-certified mail to the following:

Robert Aquino, M.D.
2 Copperfield Lane
Glen Head, NY 11545

Dated this 7" day of January, 2014.

Angelia L. Donohoe a
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT
STATE OF NEW YORK : DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH COeE
STATE BOARD FOR PROFESSIONAL MEDICAL conpUC?T i Or Vi
WO A UN: ah hing BRIE RE SO ORE RU Unie Sele HP SERRE WINNT intel Salter HE Wie Meet SARE NEE tee, seeet: HOE “Sana seenet ONE WN come’ rg WN nak nat item ep ERR SA Stee Ee HR a > 4
TH THE MATTER : DETERMINATION
OF : AND
ROBERT JOSEPH AQUINO, M.D. : ORDER

A Commissioner’s Order, Notice of Referral Proceeding and
tatement of Charges, dated September 13, 2012, were served upon
[the Respondent, Robert Joseph Aquino, M.D. TREVOR A, LITCHMORE,
M.D. (Chair), JANET M. MILLER, R.N., and REID T. MULLER, M.D.,
duly desiqnated members of the State Board for Professional
Medical Conduct, served as the Hearing Committee in this matter
pursuant to Section 230(10)(e) of the Public Health Law. LARRY
Ic. STORCH, ESQ., ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE, served as the
| Administrative Officer. The Department of Health appeared by
Michael G. Bass, Esq., Assistant Counsel. The Respondent
fiappeared by Hodgson Russ, LLP, William Comiskey, Esq., of
| counsel. A hearing was held on January 24, 2013. Evidence was
| received and witnesses sworn and heard and transcripts of these
| proceedings were made.

After consideration of the entire record, the Hearing

aCommittee issues this Determination and Order.

STATEMENT OF CASE

This case was brought pursuant to Public Health Law

Section 230(10) (p). The statute provides for an expedited

| hearing where a licensse is charged solely with a violation of
Education Law §6530(9). In such cases, a licensee is charged
lwith misconduct based upen a prior criminal conviction in New

I vork or another jurisdiction, or upon a prior administrative
adjudication regarding conduct which would amount to professional
lmisconduct, if committed in New York. The scope of an expedited
hearing is limited to a determination of the nature and severity

llof the penalty to be imposed upon the licensee.

In the instant case, Respondent is charged with
}professional miscenduct pursuant to Education Law
($6530 (93 (a} (ii), by being convicted of a crime under federal law.
A copy of the Statement of Charges is attached to this

i) Determination and Order in Appendix I. Baséd upon Respondent’s
foriminal conviction, the Executive Deputy Commissioner of Health,
summarily suspended Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
New York State, pending the outcome of this hearing. The summary

suspension became effective on September 13, 2012.

ons,

FINDINGS OF FACT

The following Pindings of Fact were made after a review
lof the entire record in this matter. Numbers in parentheses
| refer to transcript page numbers or exhibits. These citations
xepresent evidence found persuasive by the Hearing Committee in
arriving at a particular finding. Conflicting evidence, if any,
was considered and rejected in favor of the cited evidence.

1. Rebert Joseph Aquino, M.D., (hereinafter “Respondent”}
was authorized to practice medicine in New York State on June 12,
p i986 by the issuance of license number 166358 by the New York
Istate Education Department. (Exhibit #3).

4. On or about January 3, 2012, in the United States
District Court, Southern District of New York, Respondent was
| convicted upon 4 plea of guilty of felony Conspiracy to Commit
[ Bribery, in violation of Title 18 of the United States Code
ilsections 1952(a) (3) and 371. On May 1, 2012, Respondent was
sentenced, inter alia, to four (4) months of imprisonment.

(Exhibit #4).

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The following conclusions were made pursuant to the

Findings of Fact listed above. All conclusions resulted from a

unanimous vote of the Hearing Committee unless noted otherwise.

The evidence established that Respondent was convicted,

upon a guilty plea, of a crime under federal law. Accordingly,

|}the Hearing Committee voted to sustain the Specification of

professional misconduct set forth in the Statement of Charges.

DETERMINATION AS TO PENALTY

The Hearing Committee, pursuant to the Pindings of Fact

jand Conclusions of Law set forth above, unanimously determined
that the summary suspension of Respondent’s medical license
should be lifted. His license should then be suspended for one
aay year, with the suspension stayed, and Respondent placed on

‘Hl probation for a periced of one (1) year from the effective date of
| this Determination and Order. The terms of probation should also
| include a requirement that Respondent’s medical practice be

|monitored, during the period of probation. Respondent should

also be required to complete a continuing medical education

| course on medical/professional ethics. In addition, a
Hxrestriction shall be placed on his license to prohibit Respondent

i from owning ox administering a medical practice, or Article 28

) facility. The complete terms of probation are set forth in

ll Appendix Ii which is attached to this Determination and Order and
incerporated herein. This determination was reached upon due

iW consideration of the full spectrum of penalties available
[pursuant to statute, including revocation, suspension and/or
jprobation, censure and reprimand, and the imposition of monetary
| penalties.

This is 4 very unusual case. Although convicted of a

Il federal crime, the United States Attorney for the Southern
District of New York wrote a letter to the Director of the State
| Office for Professional Medical Conduct, seeking leniency for

|| Respondent. (Exhibit #4). The letter sets out the facts and
circumstances surrounding Respondent’s attempt to bribe then-

| State Senator Carl Kruger, in an effort to prevent the closure of
|Parkway Hospital in Queens.

Respondent purchased the financially distressed hospital
fin 2004. He then invested large sums of money into the facility
(in excess of $28 million), but was forced to declare bankruptcy
Jin 2005. In 2008, the New York State Commission on Health Care
Facilities in the 21%* Century (also known as the “Berger
fCommission”) determined that Parkway Hospital must be closed.
P(Exhibit #4). Sometime during the summer of 2908, Senator Kruger

land a co-conspirator solicited a $60,000 bribe from Respondent,

ito be paid in the form of radiology services provided by the co-


| conspirator’s firm, (Exhibit #4). Not surprisingly, there was no
Jattempt to save Parkway, and the hospital closed.

The decision to pay a bribe in an attempt to keep the

i hospital open was a fool’s cholce and a colossal ethical lapse.

| Respondent knew full well that it was wrong, and did it anyway.
(His actions were even more inexplicable, given that in the past
he had voluntarily approached federal prosecutors when another
corrupt politician sought to solicit bribes. (Exhibit #4).

The Hearing Committee was impressed by Respondent’ s
expression af remorse, and takes note of the supportive testimony
| which he received from several former colleagues. All testified
Hto his clinical abilities and his devotion to the well-being of
lhis patients. The fact that Respondent’s criminal conduct did not
directly impact the practice of medicine, or place any patients
at risk does mitigate the need for a revocation of his medical
license. We are confident that the chance of recidivism is
ll extremely low.

Nevertheless, a significant sanction is warranted, both
|in recognition of the seriousness of the crime, and the
importance of sending a message of deterrence to the rest of the
tl medical profession. The need for such a message was amply borne
I out by the testimony of the various witnesses who testified on

Respondent's behalf. Each was aware of the nature of his

| criminal actions. Yet not ome was willing or able to say that

| they would not engage in similar criminal conduct, if presented
leith the same set of circumstances.

The Hearing Committee unanimously determined that upon
;removal of the summary suspension imposed by the Commissioner,

| Respondent’ s license shall be suspended for a period of one year.
| the suspension will be stayed, and Respondent placed on probation
lor one year. Respondent shall also be required to complete a

| continuing medical education course on medical ethics, acceptable
[| to the Director of the Office of Professional Medical Conduct,

| during the term of probation. Given that Respondent has been out
[of active medical practice for some time, the Committee further
idetermined that his medical practice shall also be monitored

Il during the term of probation.

Lastly, the Committee determined that a restriction shall
be placed on Respondent’s license to prohibit him from owning or
| administering a@ medical practice, or Article 28 facility. This
-fiwill allow Respondent to continue practicing medicine without
{getting involved in the management side of the profession again.
Even his own witness, Steven Arnold, M.D., acknowledged that as

an administrator, Respondent had difficulty balancing his care

Hand compassion for patients with the business needs of the

forganization. By taking away the temptation of re-engaging in

}the administrative process, Respondent will be able to focus his
energies on providing medical care for his patients.
Under the totality of the circumstances, the Hearing
| Committee believes that the sanctions imposed strike the
| appropriate balance between the need to punish Respondent and
| deter future conduct by others in the profession, while providing

an opportunity for Respondent's rehabilitation.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1. The Specification of professional misconduct, ag set
|forth in the Statement of Charges (Exhibit # 1) is SUSTAINED;

2, The Summary Suspension of Respondent's medical
license, imposed by the Commissioner’s Order and Notice of
Referral Proceeding be and hereby is lifted;

3. Respondent's license to practice medicine in New York

State shall be SUSPENDED for a period of ONE (1) YEAR from the

effective date of this Determination and Order. Said suspension

shall be STAYED and Respondent placed on PROBATION for a term of

ONE (1) YEAR from the effective date of this Determination and
}Order. The complete terms of probation are set forth in Appendix
Il of this Determination and Order and incorporated therein;

4. AR restriction shall be and hereby is placed on

Respondent’s license to practice medicine in New York as follows:
Respondent shall be barred from owning or administering a medical
| Practice, or Article 28 facility;
So, This Determination and Order shall be effective upon
service, Service shall be either by certified mail upon
| nespondens at Respondent's last known address and such service
shall be effective upon receipt or seven days after mailing by
| certified mail, whichever is earlier, or by personal service and

such service shall be effective upon receipt.

|| paren: Albany, Naw York

, 2013
ale
REDACTED -
PREVOR A. LITCHMORE, M.D. (CHATR)
| JANET M. MILLER, R.N.

REID T, MOLLER, M.D.

TO: Michael G, Bass, Esq.
Agsistant Counsel ,
New York State Department of Health
Corning Tower ~ Room 2512
Albany, New York 12237

William Comiskey, Esq.
Hodgson Russ, LLP
677 Broadway

Albany, New York 12207

Robert Joseph Aquino, M.D.
REDACTED


