

COPY

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In The Matter of Charges and ) nol? No. 06-18554-1
) .
Complaint Against )
WAYNE DUNETZ, P.A.-C., )
Respondent. )

ORDER

A Review of Respondent’s Compliance with Terms of Settlement and Licensure Status was
considered before the full Board on the 13" day of June 2008. Present were: Respondent
Wayne Dunetz, P.A.-C., via video conference from Las Vegas, NV, Board members Javaid Anwar,
M.D., Sohail Anjum, M.D., Jean Stoess, M.A., Charles N. Held, M.D., Cindy Lamerson, M.D.,
S. Daniel McBride, M.D. and Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D. Board member Rene West was absent.
Also in attendance were Shawna Rice, Compliance Officer, Lyn Beggs, Deputy General Counsel, and
Robert Bryant, Deputy Attorney General.

Following discussion and having heard from Respondent as well as the Compliance Officer and
legal staff of the Board, and with good cause appearing, the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
hereby enters its Order as follows:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that Respondent is hereby reinstated to practice as a physician
assistant but remains on probation and must remain in compliance with the terms of said probation set
forth in the Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, accepted and adopted by the Board on June 8,
2007, and

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that Respondent may not begin actively practicing unless and
until he provides the Board with the identity of his supervising physician and the physician is approved
by the Board to act as the supervising physician of Respondent, and


IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that Respondent will comply with the recommendations of the
confidential evaluation completed by Melissa Piasecki, M.D. on May 8, 2008, during the remaining
duration of his probation, if Respondent does not comply with the recommendations as set forth in the
evaluation during his probation, it may result in the imposition of the stayed revocation of his license
after proper notice and an opportunity to be heard on the matter.

Done in open session this 13" day of June, 2008.

Javaid Anwar, M.D., PreSident
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

