

For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and
NO.
Complaint Against Case No. 07-12232-1
P 6 FILED {é joe Leeds
STEVEN GARY YEARSLEY, M.D.,
Aor A Chek.
Respondent. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the state of Nevada,

composed of Charles Held, M.D., Chairman, Cindy Lamerson, M.D., Member, and Jean Stoess, M.A.,
Member, by and through Lyn E. Beggs, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Steven Gary Yearsley, M.D., hereinafter referred to
as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint,
stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is licensed in active status to practice medicine in the State of Nevada, and
at all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant
to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent was granted a license to practice medicine by the state of Utah in June 2002.

3. On February 9, 2006, Utah revoked Respondent’s license to practice medicine for gross
negligence and incompetence in the treatment of patients, however, the revocation was stayed and
Respondent was placed on probation with multiple conditions for a period of three years.

4. On May 8, 2006, the Medical Board of California filed an Accusation against
Respondent based upon the action taken by the state of Utah.

5. On February 23, 2007, an order was entered by the Medical Board of California adopting

a Stipulated Surrender of License regarding Respondent’s license to practice in the state of California.



6. The stipulated surrender of Respondent’s California medical license went into effect on
March 2, 2007.

CountI

7. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that the suspension,
modification or limitation of the license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction or the
surrender of the license while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for disciplinary
action.

8. The modification of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Utah
constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

9. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count II

10, Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that the suspension,
modification or limitation of the license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction or the
surrender of the license while under investigation by any licensing authority is grounds for disciplinary
action.

11. The stipulated surrender of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of
California after an Accusation had been filed constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS
630.301(3).

12. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a formal
hearing;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against
him;



3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose for the violation or violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further action as

may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this _]S°~ day of July, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

KAW
Lyn E. Beggs
Attorney for the InveStigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS |)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint

against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this__/S"? day of “JuK, 2008.



Charles N. Held, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that on
the 15" day of July 2008, I served a file copy of the FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT, via USPS
certified return receipt to the following:
Steven Yearsley, M.D.

PO Box 506
Arco, ID 83213

Dated this 15" day of July 2008.

Angelia’ Donohoe
Legal Assistant

