

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In The Matter of Charges and ) Nohad No. 07-20873-1
) sueo Blithe
Complaint Against ) FILED
KENT ALAN SWAINE, M.D., ) ~ EXECUTIVE DIRECTO!
Respondent. )

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman,
Jean Stoess, M.A., and Cindy Lamerson, M.D., by and through counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and
Respondent herein, Kent Alan Swaine, M.D. (Respondent), representing himself, as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about November 26, 2007, the Investigative Committee filed a Complaint
and Request for Summary Suspension based upon which the adjudicating members of the Board
summarily suspended Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada.

WHEREAS, on or about November 28, 2007, the Investigative Committee filed an Amended
Complaint and Request for Summary Suspension containing the same counts as included in the
Complaint and Request for Summary Suspension.

WHEREAS, on or about February 20, 2008, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners filed a Second Amended Complaint in the above-referenced matter, charging
Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), to wit: two counts of
engaging in conduct which is intended to deceive, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(a); one count of
dependency on a controlled substance, a violation of NRS 630.306(10); and one count of prescribing a
controlled substance or dangerous drug to or for himself or others except as authorized by law, a

violation of NRS 630.306(3).



WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Second Amended Complaint, reviewed it,
understands the nature and significance of the Second Amended Complaint, and Respondent is fully
advised concerning his rights and defenses to the Second Amended Complaint as well as the possible
sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has violated one or more
provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
(RS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but
not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by
counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination
of witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and witnesses on his own behalf, the right to written
findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of
any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to waive all
of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical
Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a
hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he agrees to settle
and resolve this matter of the Second Amended Complaint filed against him by way of, and in accordance
with, this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a
regularly-scheduled quarterly meeting, duly noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall advocate
approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion
whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that if the

Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and



conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s
Investigative Committee; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has reviewed and understands all the relevant facts and circumstances of
this matter and after due consideration concedes that he did engage in activity meant to deceive, does have
a drug dependence and did prescribe a controlled substance or dangerous drug in a manner not authorized
by law as outlined in the Second Amended Complaint filed by the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners in this case.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the Investigative
Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction, Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent acknowledges that he is not represented by
counsel and wishes to proceed towards resolution of this matter as set forth in this Agreement without
counsel. Respondent understands and acknowledges that he may retain and consult counsel prior to
entering into this Agreement and agrees that if counsel is retained for representation in this matter prior to
entering into this Agreement, that counsel for the Investigative Committee will be informed of such prior
to Respondent executing this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with counsel prior to entering
into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, without the advice of counsel, waives
all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him
in connection with the proceeding regarding the Second Amended Complaint filed herein, the defense of

said complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that



the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the Second Amended Complaint herein
may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further
proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees
that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent violated one or
more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent_to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him,
finding that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act, to wit: two counts of engaging in activity
meant to deceive, violations of NRS 630.306(2)(a); one count of having a drug dependency, a violation
of NRS 630.306(10); and one count of prescribing a controlled substance or dangerous drug in a manner
not authorized by law, a violation of NRS 630.306(3) and ordering that Respondent’s license to practice
medicine be revoked. Said revocation shall be stayed and Respondent shall be placed on probation for
five (5) years with the following terms and conditions:

a. that Respondent shall not be reinstated to active status until such time as the Nevada
Professionals Health Program (NPHP) has stated in writing that Respondent is able to safely resume the
practice of medicine and the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners has issued and served upon
Respondent an Order stating that Respondent is reinstated to active status;

b. that Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

c. that Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners (hereinafter “Compliance Officer”) within thirty (30) days of the approval and
acceptance of this Agreement in order to provide information regarding the most expeditious method of
contacting him;

d. that Respondent shall comply with all federal, state and local laws and rules governing
the practice of medicine in Nevada at all times he is practicing within the state;

e. that Respondent shall submit to random alcohol and/or drug screens requested by the



Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners in addition to any such screens required by NPHP, at his
own expense;

f. that Respondent shall notify the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within forty-
eight (48) hours of any arrest, criminal conviction, including misdemeanors, or any admission for
treatment of substance abuse or psychological illness;

g. that Respondent, once reinstated to practice medicine, will be restricted to only
practicing with one or more medical doctors and/or doctors of osteopathy and must provide a copy of,
this agreement to all his practice partners and obtain from them a written acknowledgement that they
have received said copy;

h. that Respondent shall comply with all terms and conditions of his contract with the
NPHP and shall extend his contract with the NPHP if so recommended by the program;

i. that Respondent shall sign a new release of information allowing the Nevada State Board
of Medical Examiners to communicate and receive any and all information from the NPHP regarding
Respondent’s treatment through said program;

j. that Respondent shall sign a new release of information allowing the Nevada State Board
of Medical Examiners to communicate and receive any and all information from any treatment program
that Respondent has attended, is attending or will attend for the treatment of substance abuse or
psychological illness;

k. that Respondent shall submit to a psychological and/or psychiatric evaluation if
requested to do so by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and shall sign any necessary
release of information for the results to be forwarded to the Board;

1. that Respondent shall not prescribe any controlled substance or dangerous drug as
defined in NRS 454 to any member of his immediate family or himself and shall prescribe controlled
substances or dangerous drugs only in the manner authorized by law;

m. that Respondent agrees that if he is charged with professional misconduct in the future,
this Agreement, and/or any related orders, and/or records of his compliance, may be admitted into
evidence at a hearing regarding the alleged professional misconduct, at the sole discretion of the

Investigative Committee;



n. that Respondent agrees to pay the costs of investigation and prosecution of this matter in
the current amount of $4287.64, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any, within sixty (60)
days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

0. that Respondent agrees to pay the reasonable costs, if any, of monitoring his probation to
the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and shall pay said costs within thirty (30) days of the due
date of any invoice presented by the Board.

p- that no sooner than six months prior to end the five year probationary term, Respondent
agrees to file a written petition for restoration of an unrestricted license, including proof of compliance
with all conditions of this Agreement, to practice medicine in the state of Nevada and, if requested, to
appear in front of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners at a regularly scheduled Board
meeting, with the understanding that restoration of an unrestricted license will not be unreasonably
denied.

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The Investigative Committee and counsel for
the Investigative Committee shall recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and
conditions contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Second Amended Complaint. In the course of seeking Board
approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and
communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his
part or on the part of his counsel, should he retain counsel, and that such contacts and communications
may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Second Amended Complaint
and the allegation therein, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the Second Amended
Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the Second Amended
Complaint against Respondent.

7. Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available Agenda
of a regularly-scheduled and duly-noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly understood that this



Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the Investigative
Committee for acceptance.

8. Effect _of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
Investigative Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order finding Respondent twice
violated NRS 630.306(2)(a), which states the engaging of conduct which is intended to deceive is grounds
for discipline, when he twice practiced medicine after being informed by the NPHP that he was not fit
to practice medicine; also finding Respondent violated NRS 630.306(10), which states that dependency
on controlled substances is grounds for discipline, due to his multi-year use of controlled substances,
namely opiates; and also finding Respondent violated NRS 630.306(3), which states that prescribing
controlled substances or dangerous drugs except as authorized by law is grounds for discipline, when he
prescribed schedule II controlled substances for his wife on multiple occasions.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,
accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption
of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from
considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role,
including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself,
his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands

whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or



claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by
reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection
with the complaint. The Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full
settlement of all claims related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with
the Board.

11. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and
enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee, which contract may be
enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

12. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either
party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

13. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action
is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

14. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving this
Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board shall impose the
stayed revocation of Respondent’s license to practice medicine and would then have grounds, after
notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent for the subject's violation of an

Order of the Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

t
Dated this/* day of Bhaacg— 2008,
Ai E Beggs, Esq. G7

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



I am in agreement with all of the terms of the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent

Agreement signed on the a* day of “Febru Aa 2008, by Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., Attorney for the
Investigative Committee.

Bry
Dated this 2) day of Febtuwé/ 2008.

a Signature of Kent Alan Swaine, M.D.
subscribed and sworn to before me

KepATan Swaine, M.D. this 7 "day of Febyuary 2008

Respondent Le

Notary Puble

lotary Public - State of Nevada}
County of Clark
CARISSA SANDERS
My Appointment Expires
June 10, 2010

107499-1



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is approved
and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 28" day of March 2008, with the

final total amount of costs due of $4,287.64.

JAVA Mace President

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS


