Up WN

fo oN Da

ul

Before the Board of Medical Examiners

of the State of Nevada
In The Matter of Charges and nase No. 07-23881-01
Complaint Against
BRIAN FOX, M.D.,
Respondent.

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., Chairman,
and S. Daniel McBride, M.D., Member, at the time the Complaint was authorized, by and through Deputy
General Counsel, Edward Cousineau, Esq., and , M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on October 16, 2007, the Board’s IC filed a formal complaint in the above-referenced
matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical
Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), to wit: one count of malpractice, a violation of
NRS 630.301(4).

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the complaint, understands it, and
has consulted with his counsel, Edward J. Lemons, Esq., concerning the nature and significance of the
complaint, and Respondent fully understands his rights and defenses regarding the complaint as well as the
possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that he has engaged in conduct
that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but not
limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by counsel in

the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of

CoN DAH eww Ye


witnesses against him, the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the
Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based upon his understanding of the relevant facts and circumstances,
and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all of his rights under the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada
Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a hearing on the charges and a
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he desires to settle and resolve this matter of the
formal complaint against him by way of and in accordance with this Settlement, Waiver and Consent
Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and scheduled, and that the IC
will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own
discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms, covenants
and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be
binding and enforceable upon him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that, if the Board does not approve the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below
shall not be binding and enforceable upon him except the provisions as to disqualification of adjudicating
panel members in paragraph number 9, and he will be provided with an opportunity to defend himself
against the charges against him at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending complaint and charges brought against him
by the Board’s IC in the above captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent was at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the above-

captioned matter, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada, subject to jurisdiction



of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to
impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel named herein, whom
Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent, and fully advised in these circumstances, and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly and
intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and
conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waives all rights arising
under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada, NRS Chapter
630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the
proceedings on the complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint, the adjudication of the charges in
said complaint, and the imposition of sanctions, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees
that the Board’s IC had a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds
for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent _to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, or to an amended complaint, Respondent hereby agrees, and does not contest, that an order may
be entered herein by the Board finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: one count of malpractice, a violation of NRS 630.301(4), that
in treating the patient referenced in the original complaint filed by the IC, Respondent’s care and treatment
of the patient at issue was inconsistent with the appropriate standard of care that should have been applied
based upon the circumstances, that Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, the Respondent shall be
fined in the amount of $5,000.00, and that within one year of the acceptance, adoption and approval of
this Agreement, Respondent shall complete twenty (20) hours of Continuing Medical Education (CME)

regarding the subject of pre-natal care, which are to be approved by the IC Chairman in advance of


BXHRRRPBBRSGESeDWT_A DESKS

their accomplishment. The aforementioned CME’s are to be in addition to any CME requirements that
are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada. Further,
Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of this case in the current amount of $1,749.66, plus any additional costs that may be accrued
subsequent in the disposition of this matter. The aforementioned fine and costs are to be paid to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within sixty (60) days of the acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement by the Board. A final accounting of the additional costs will be provided to
Respondent in the entry of the Board’s Order relating to the matter.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Settlement Agreement, the Respondent,
for himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in
their individual and representative capacities, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action,
suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or
equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons
or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary
action, this settlement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the
formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the
panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants
and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or
opportunity to be heard on his part, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint, any and
all evidence that may exist in support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature

whatsoever related to the complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent.



8. Effect_of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will enter
an order finding Respondent committed a violation of Nevada’s Medical Practice Act, specifically NRS
630.301(4), that Respondent will be publicly reprimanded, Respondent shall be fined in the amount of
$5,000.00, and that Respondent shall, within one year of the adoption of this Agreement, enroll in and
attend twenty (20) hours of CME approved by the Board regarding the subject of pre-natal care, which
are to be in addition to any CME requirements which are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a
condition of licensure in the State of Nevada, and ordering Respondent to pay the fine, costs, and
expenses of the investigation and prosecution of this matter as provided previously herein, and
dismissing the underlying complaint.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,
accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that, not
withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and
enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or
tribunal having jurisdiction.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either
party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorney’s Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the prevailing party

2 || shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.
3 Dated this % “day of March, 2008.
4 a
6 tome for the Investigative Committee of the yrvmonrn ear
7 Nevada’ State Board of Medical Examiners
9 [Brian Fox, MD; hereby agree ww the foregoing Settlement, Consent and-Waiver-asto-the-—}——
10 || complaint in Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners Case No. 07-23881-01
" 30
12 Dated this ~ _____ day of March, 2008.
| Boe
14 Fo by
1s Brian Fox, M.D., Respondent

y
oe

oem NIN DAW PB WN |


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, Case No.
07-23881-1, is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 28" day
of March 2008, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,749.66 pursuant to Paragraph 5 above.

JAVAI WAR, President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

