

STATE GQPY.. EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of the Charges and
Complaint Against:
Case No. 07-31239-1

RZ.


JASON HOWERTON, C.R.T. )
Gy ecutive Director/Special Counsel

Respondent.

FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER

The above-entitled matter came on regularly for decision before the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter “Board,” on Friday, June 13, 2008 at the
Board’s regularly scheduled meeting held at the Conference Room in the Offices of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, 1105 Terminal Way, Suite 301, Reno,
Nevada 89502 with video conference to the Offices of the Nevada State Board of Dental
Examiners, 6010 South Rainbow Boulevard, Building A, Suite 1, Las Vegas Nevada
89118. Respondent, JASON HOWERTON, C.R.T., hereinafter “Respondent” was not
present at the meeting.

The members of the Board participating in the decision were: Javaid Anwar,
M.D., Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., S. Daniel McBride, M.D., Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D.
Board Member Renee West was not present for the decision. All other remaining
members of the Board, being members of the Investigative Committee which issued the
complaint in this matter, were excused from participating and took no part in the
proceedings of the Board. Robert J. Bryant, Deputy Attorney General, acted as legal
counsel to the Board.

The Board having received and read the complaint and exhibits offered in the
matter, as well as the evidentiary packet of materials from the Hearing Officer, and
having reviewed and read all of the above, proceeded to make a decision pursuant to
the provisions of NRS chapter 233B and NRS 630.352.



The Board after due consideration of the record, evidence and law, and being
fully advised in the premises, makes its FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF
LAW, AND ORDER in this matter as follows:

oo WOmlUN COUMLULUCUMRUBLULUDN

EINDINGS OF FACT
On or about October 8, 2007 a complaint was filed against Respondent by the
Investigative Committee of the Board alleging a violation of NAC 630.540(1)
(willfully and intentionally making a false statement in applying for a license.)
On or about November 21, 2005 the Respondent responded to Question 12 on
his application for licensure to the Board with said question being “Have you ever
been investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo
contendere to any offense or violation of any federal (including U.S. Military),
state or local law....which is a misdemeanor, gross misdemeanor, court-martial,
or felony, excluding any minor traffic offense...”
The Respondent replied in the negative to Question 12.
On or about March 8, 2006 the Respondent responded to Question 5 on his
application for initial registration as a Certified Respiratory Therapist with the
Board with said question being “Have you ever been investigated for, charged
with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere to any offense or violation of
any federal, state or local law...which is a misdemeanor, gross misdemeanor, or
felony, excluding any minor traffic offense...”
The Respondent replied in the negative to Question 5.
Respondent has been licensed as a Certified Respiratory Therapist in the State
of Nevada since March 15, 2006.
Subsequent to the licensure of the Respondent by the Board, the Board
determined that between 1984 and 2002, the Respondent had been arrested at
least 6 times for criminal offense that were not minor traffic offenses.
The Board finds that the Respondent was deceitful and made a false statement

when he answered Questions 12 and 5 in the negative because he had been
-2-



10.

11,

12.


arrested and/or investigated and/or charged with multiple offenses that were not
minor traffic offenses.
The Board finds that Respondent violated NAC 630.540(1), as set forth in the
complaint and as set forth in paragraph 8.
Accordingly, the Board finds that the Respondent is subject to discipline pursuant
to NAC 630.555.
The Board finds by a preponderance of the evidence, that Respondent’s conduct
is a violation of NAC chapter 630 and that discipline is warranted.
\f any of the foregoing Findings of Fact is more properly deemed a Conclusion of
Law, it may be so construed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Board has jurisdiction over the Respondent.
Respondent was properly served with notice of hearing before the Hearing
Officer via mailing to his last known address of 1751 Clearwood Street, Pittsburg,
California, 94565 and via publication in the Las Vegas Review Journal pursuant
to NRS and NAC chapters 630 and NRS chapter 233B.
That the Board concludes that Respondent has violated NAC 630.540(1) as a
result of his answering in the negative questions for licensure relating to, inter
alia, whether he had been investigated and/or charged with a crime (other than a
minor traffic offense) when in fact he had been so investigated and/or charged
with such crimes (which were not minor traffic offenses) on at least 6 occasions
between 1984 and 2002.
The Respondent is therefore subject to discipline pursuant to NAC 630.555.
If any of the foregoing Conclusions of Law is more properly deemed a Findings of

Fact, it may be so construed.

-3-



ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and good
cause appearing therefore,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

1. Respondent violated NAC chapter 630 and that discipline is warranted.

2. Respondent's license as a Certified Respiratory Therapist is hereby
revoked.

3. Respondent is fined in the amount of FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS ©
($1,500) and shall pay investigative costs in the amount of $3,110.38.

DATED this 12", day of _ TouuAw 2008.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Whonan/

JAVAID ANWAR, M.D., President

Submitted by:

CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO
Attorney General

By:

: N
Deputy Attorriéy General
Attorney's for Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

-4-



CERTIFICATION

| hereby certify that the foregoing is the full and true original FINDINGS OF
FACT, CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND ORDER on file in the office of the Board of
Medical Examiners in the matters of JASON HOWERTON, C.R.T., Case
No. 07-31239-1.

| further certify that JAVAID ANWAR, M.D., is President of the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners and that full force and credit is due to his official acts as
such; and that the signature to the foregoing ORDER is the signature of said JAVAID
ANWAR, M.D.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, | have hereunto set my hand in my official capacity as

Secretary-Treasurer of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

Donct Wat
RENEE WEST

Secretary-Treasurer
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

-5-

