

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
ea R RE

In the Matter of Charges and )

Complaint Against ) NGase No..08-19247-1 __
HAROLD TATE, M.D rugg£™ Dee =

ov? ) L. Dee
Respondent. ) CLERK OF THE BOARD

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of Sohai] U. Anjum, M.D.,
Chairman, and S. Daniel McBride, M.D. Member, by and through counsel, Edward Cousineau, Esq., and
Harold Tate, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about May 20, 2008, the IC of the Board filed a formal complaint in the above-
referenced matter, charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), to
wit:, revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice medicine in another
jurisdiction, a violation of NRS 630.301(3).

WHEREAS, Respondent ‘has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands the
nature and significance of the Complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and
defenses to the Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and
concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but
not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against him, the right to representation by
counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confrontation and

if


- 2


cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to present evidence and witnesses on his own behalf,
the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to
judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to waive all
of his rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical
Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a
hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he agrees to settle
and resolve this matter of the formal complaint against him by way of, and in accordance with, this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly meeting, duly noticed, and
that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to
decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board approves the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s IC; and

WHEREAS, Respondent has reviewed and understands all the relevant facts and circumstances of
this matter and after due consideration concedes that his active license to practice medicine in California
has been suspended, modified and or limited as outlined in the Complaint filed by the IC of the Board in
this case.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
him by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the
following terms, covenants and conditions:

1, Jurisdiction, Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act

(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.



2. Representation by Counsel, Respondent acknowledges that although he is not
represented by counsel licensed in the state of Nevada, Respondent has consulted with out-of-state counsel
prior to entering into this Agreement.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently and that he has consulted with out-of-state counsel prior to entering
into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, waives all rights arising under or
pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and
NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the
proceeding on the complaint filed herein, the defense of said complaint and the adjudication of the charges
in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by
complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any
further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees
that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent violated one or more provisions of
the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent_to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against him,
finding that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act to wit: revocation, suspension,
modification or limitation of his California license to practice medicine, a violation of NRS 630.301(3),
and ordering that Respondent’s Nevada license to practice medicine be revoked, with that revocation
stayed, and that Respondent’s license be placed in a probationary status until March 20, 2013, that
Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, and that he remain in compliance with the following terms
and conditions:

a. that Respondent both has, and shall continue to, comply with all the terms and conditions
set forth by the California Medical Board in its Decision which became effective on March 21, 2008,
(see Exhibit A);



b. that Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Board (hereinafter
“Compliance Officer”) within thirty (30) days of the approval and acceptance of this Agreement in
order to provide information regarding the most expeditious method of contacting him;

c. that Respondent shall sign a release of information allowing the Board to communicate
with the California Medical Board regarding Respondent’s compliance with the terms of his California
probation or provide proof of completion of said probation and reinstatement of his license without
restrictions;

d. that Respondent shall comply with all federal, state and local laws and rules governing
the practice of medicine in Nevada at all times he is practicing within the state;

e. that Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Compliance Officer, or any other
designated person, in the administration and enforcement of this Agreement;

f. that Respondent agrees to pay the costs of investigation and prosecution of this matter in
the current amount of $441.55, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any, within sixty (60) days
of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the
formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel
of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and
agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or
opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his counsel, and that such contacts and
communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the complaint,
the allegations in the complaint, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the complaint, and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent.

7. Board Approval Required, This Agreement will be placed on the next available Agenda
of a regularly scheduled and duly noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly understood that this

Ml



Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the IC for acceptance.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,
accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the IC
will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order finding Respondent violated NRS 630.301(3), which
states that the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to practice medicine by
another jurisdiction is grounds for discipline, when his California license to practice medicine was
suspended and/or modified.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board, In the event the Board does not approve,
accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including
adjudication of the case, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such
member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself,
his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their
representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or
claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by
reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection
with the complaint. The IC hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims
related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

Mt



11. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and
enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or
tribunal having jurisdiction,

12. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

13. Attorneys Fees and Costs, Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an action
is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

14, Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving this
Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would then have
grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in addition to that
included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630,3065(2)(a).

Dated this 11"" day of September, 2008.

Edward Cousineau, Esq.

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


I am in agreement with all of the terms of the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent

Agreement signed on the 11" day of September, by Edward Cousineau, Esq., Attorney for the

Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

hn
Dated this | T" day of Sept 2008.

Respondent

Notary Public

February 8, 2013

JIMMY L SHELL JR.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS)
My Commission Expires

Signature of Harold Tate, M.D.
subscribed and sworn to before me

this {Play of Seat" 2008

Sh

Not wT .

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT
AGREEMENT is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on
the 5" day of December 2008.

Qs

Charles N. Held, President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

EXHIBIT
A
BEFORE THE
DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIAPD5C4L BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRSDY certify thet this document is a true
STATE OF CALIFORNIA an correct copy of the original on file in this

ti . . 4 val


In the Matter of the Accusation ) Tithe
Against: ) Date
HAROLD AUSTIN TATE, M.D. ) File No, 08-2006-178477
Physician's and Surgeon's )
Certificate No. G 74583 ) .
) ‘ me. EIVEO
Respondent ) 2 4
) _ PRO ae
DECISION

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby adopted as the
Decision and Order of the Division of Medical Quality of the Medical Board of California,
Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on March 21, 2008 .

ITIS SOORDERED February 20, 2008.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA



EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General
of the State of California

GAIL M. HEPPELL
Supervising Deputy Attorney General

GL THORPE, State Bar No. 112122
Deputy Attorney General

1300 J Street, Suite 125

P.O. Box 944255

Sacramento, CA 94244-2550

Telephone: (916) 322-9226

Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
DIVIS}ON OF MEDICAL QUALITY
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 08-2006-178477
HAROLD AUSTIN TATE, M.D. OAH No. 2007080860
8680 Mesa Canogo Drive
Las Vegas, Nevada 89148. STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND
DISCIPLINARY ORDER

Physician and Surgeon's No. G 74583

Respondent.

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the

above-entitled proceedings that the following matters are true:
PARTIES

1, Barbara Johnston (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the
Medical Board of California, She brought this action solely in her official capacity and is
represented in this matter by Edmund G. Brown Jr., Attorney General of the State of California,
by G. Lynn Thorpe, Deputy Attorney General.

2. Respondent Harold Austin Tate, M.D. is represented in this proceeding by
attorney Mark Rivas, Esq., whose addyess is Law Offices of Mark Ravis, 7510 West Sunset
Boulevard, Suite 559, Los Angeles, California 90046.



MW


3. On or about March 13, 1998, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician and Surgeon Certificate No. G 74583 to Harold Austin Tate, M.D. (Respondent).
Unless renewed, it will expire on January 31, 2008.

JURISDICTION

4. Accusation No. 08-2006-178477 was filed before the Division of Medical
Quality (Division) for the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, and is
currently pending against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily required
documents were properly served on Respondent on July 26, 2007. Respondent timely filed his
Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation. A copy of Accusation No. 08-2006-178477 is
attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and
understands the charges and allegations in Accusation No. 08-2006-178477, Respondent has
also carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order.

6. Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the
right to a hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to be represented by
counsel at his own expense; the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him;
the right to present evidence and to testify on his own behalf; the right to the issuance of
subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents; the right to
reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision; and all other rights accorded by the
California Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws.

7. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up
each and every right set forth above.

CULPABILITY

8. Respondent admits the truth of each and every charge and allegation in
Accusation No. 08-2006-} 78477. -


9. Respondent agrees that his Physician and Surgeon Certificate is subject to
discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Division’s imposition of discipline as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below.

RESERVATION

10. The admissions made by Respondent herein are only for the purposes of
this proceeding, or any other proceeding in which the Division of Medical Quality, Medical
Board of California, or other professional licensing agency is involved, and shal] not be
admissible in any other criminal or civil proceeding.

, ONTINGENCY

11, This Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be subject to the
approval by the Division of the Medical Quality. Respondent understands and agrees that
counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical Board of California may communicate
directly with the Division regarding this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, without
notice to or participation by Respondent or his counsel. By signing the stipulation, Respondent
understands and agrees that he may nol withdraw his agreement or seek to rescind the stipulation
prior to the time the Division considers and acts upon it. If the Division fails to adopt this
stipulation, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be of no force or effect, except
for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal action between the parties, and the
Division shall not be disqualified from further action by having considered this matter.

OTHER MATTERS

12, The parties understand and agree that facsimile copies of this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order, including facsimile signatures thereto, shall have the same
force and effect as the originals.

Ht
M11
‘11


SB ex FRRESOKXSSESIFAESoRE

DISCIPLINARY ORDER

In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree
that the Division may, without further notice or formal proceeding, issue and enter the following
Disciplinary Order:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician and Surgeon Certificate No. G
74583 issued to Respondent Harold Austin Tate, M.D. is revoked. However, the revocation is
stayed and Respondent is placed on probation for five (5) years on the following tenns and
conditions,

1, ACTUAL SUSPENSION As part of probation, Respondent is
suspended from the practice of medicine for fifteen (15) days beginning the sixteenth (16th) day
after the effective date of this decision. This condition will not become effective until
Respondent resides and practice medicine in California.

2. ETHICS COURSE Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this
Decision, Respondent shall enrol] in a course in ethics, at Respondent’s expense, approved in
advance by the Division or its designee. Failure to successfully complete the course during the
first year of probation is a violation of probation.

An ethics course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision, may, in the sole discretion of the
Division or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the course would
have been approved by the Division or its designee had the course been taken after the effective
date of this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Division
or its designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not
later than 15 calendar days afier the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

3. NOTIFICATION Prior to engaging in the practice of medicine, the
Respondent shall provide a true copy of the Decision(s) and Accusation(s) to the Chief of Staff
or the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to

Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of medicine,



including all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief
Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends ma)practice insurance coverage to
Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Division or its designee within
15 calendar days. ;

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or
insurance carriers.

4. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS During probation,
Respondent is prohibited from supervising physician assistants.

5. QBEY ALL LAWS Respondent shall obey all federal, state and Jocal
laws, all rules governing the practice of medicine in California, and remain in full compliance
with any court- ordered criminal probation, payments and other orders.

6. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS Respondent shal] submit quarterly

declarations under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Division, stating whether there
has been compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shal! submit quarterly
declarations not later than 10 calendar days afier the end of the preceding quarter.

7. PROBATION UNIT COMPLIANCE Respondent shall comply with
the Division's probation unit. Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Division informed of
Respondent’s business and residence addresses. Changes of such address'shal) be immediately
communicated in writing to the Division or its designee. Under no circumstances shall a post
office box serve as an address of record, except as allowed by Business and Professions Code
section 2021(b).

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s place.of
residence. Respondent shal] maintain a current and renewed California Physician and Surgeon
license.

Respondent shall immediately inform the Division, or its designee, in writing, of
travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is contemplated to last,
more than 30 calendar days.


8. INTERVIEW WITH THE DIVISION, OR ITS DESIGNEE

Respondent shal] be available in person for interviews either al Respondent's place of business or
at the probation unit office, with the Division or its designee, upon request at various intervals,
and either with or without prior notice throughout the term of probation.

9. RESIDING OR PRACTICING OUT-OF-STATE In the event

Respondent should leave the State of California to reside or to practice, Respondent shall notify
the Division or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and return.
Non-practice is defined as any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which Respondent is
not engaging in any activities defined in sections 205] and 2052 of the Business and Professions
Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program outside the State of California
which has been approved by the Division or its designee shall be considered as time spent in the
practice of medicine within the State. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shal] not be
considered as a period of non-practice. Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice
outside California will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term. Periods of temporary
or permanent residence or practice outside California wil) relieve Respondent of the
responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the exception of this

condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws; Probation Unit

| Compliance.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically canceled if Respondent’s periods of
temporary or permanent residence or practice outside California total two years. However,
Respondent's license shall not be canceled as long as Respondent is residing and practicing
medicine in another state of the United States and is on active probation with the medical
licensing authority of that state, in which case the two-year period shall begin on the date
probation is completed or terminated in that state.

10. FAILURE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE - CALIFORNIA RESIDENT

In the event Respondent resides in the State of California and for any reason

Respondent stops practicing medicine in California, Respondent shall notify the Division or its


ah wo N

ro!

designee in writing within 30 calendar days prior to the dates of non-practice and return to
practice. Any period of non-practice within California, as defined in this condition, will not
apply to the reduction of the probationary term and does not relieve Respondent of the
responsibility to comply with the terms and conditions of probation. Non-practice is defined as .
any period of time exceeding 30 calendar days in which Respondent is not engaging in any
activities defined in sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program which has been approved by the
Division or its designee shall be considered time spent in the practice of medicine, For purposes
of this condition, non-practice due to a Board-ordered suspension or in compliance with any
other condition of probation, shal] not be considered a period of non-practice.

Respondent’s license shal] be automatically canceled if Respondent resides in
California and, for a total of two years, fails to engage in California any of the activities
described in Business and Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052.

11. COMPLETION OF PROBATION Respondent shal] comply with all

financial obligations (e.g., cost recovery, restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar
days prior to the completion of probation. Upon successful completion of probation,
Respondent's certificate shall be fully restored,

12. MVIOLATION OF PROBATION Failure to fully comply with any term
or condition of probation is a violation of probation. If Respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Division, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke
probation and carry out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, Petition to
Revoke Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation,
the Division shal! have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of
probation shal] be extended until the matter is final.

13. LICENSE SURRENDER Following the effective date of this Decision,
if Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons, or is otherwise unable to
satisfy the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request the voluntary surrender of

Respondent’s license. The Division reserves the right to evaluate Respondent's request and to

61/85/2888 11:33 4326401885 MCH SPEC PROCEDURES PAGE 69/11

exercise ily discretion whether or nat to grant the request, or to take any ofher action deemed

2 || approprinte and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender,

ieale to the

Respondent shall, within 15 calendar days, deliver Respondent's wallet and wall certil
Division or its designee and Respondent shall no Jonger practice medicine. Respondent will no
Jonger be subject to the terms and conditions of probation and the surrender of Respondent's
license shall be deemed disciplinary action. If Respondent re-applies for a medical, license, the
application shall be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked ceriificaie,

14, PROBATION MONITORING COSTS Respondent shall pay the eosis

aa awn os

9 || associated with probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the
10 | Division, which are currently set at $3,173.00. but may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such
1} || casts shall be payable 1o the Medical Board of Califomia and delivered to the Diviston or-iis
12 }| designee no tater than January 31 of each calendar year. Failure to pay casts within 30 calendar

13 | days of the cue date is « violation ef probation,

sa ACCEPT4SNCE
1S {have carefully read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and

16 |} have fully discussed it with my atlorncy, Mark Ravis. | understand the stiyalatian ond the effect
17 || it will have on my Physician und Surgeon Certificate. i enter into this Stipulated Settlement and
18 }) Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently, and'agree to be bound by the i

19 || Decision and Order of the Division of Medical Quality, Medical Board of California. i

w
ix)

be
a

od preteezate STAeM Soon dorren an rn uel)
81/05/2668 11:33 493264601889 MCH SPEC PROCEDURES PAGE 18/11

1 { have read und fully discrssed with Respondent Harald Austin Tate, M.D. the
2 } corms and conditions and other matters contained in the above Stiputated Setticiment and
3} Disciplinary Order. 7 approve its form ard content.
\ .
5 | DATED: _ 2 . e ¥ .
6 | :
; - es
MARK RAVIS_
8 . Atlomey for Respondent
9 :
10 ENDORSEMENT
uM The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order ig hereby respectfully

12 ]] submited for consideration by the Division of Medical Quality, Medical Beard of California,

13 }| Department of Consumer Affairs,

15 | DATED: O _

16 EDMUND G. BROWN IR., Attorney General
7 of the State of Califamia

GAIL M. HEPPEL)
18 Supervising Deputy Ayérney General

2)
25 ; i

Aitorneys for Complainant

mt
anos

oo]
cd

coarse erARM MBH dzesen an in er
Exhibit A
Accusation No. 08-2006-178477
FILED -

EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attorney General STATE OF CALIFORNIA
of the State of California MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA

GAIL M, HEPPELL
Supervising Deputy Attorney General io CRAMENTO pat

G. LYNN THORPE, State Bar No. 112122
Deputy Attorney General

California Department of Justice

1300] Street, Suite 125

P.O. Box 944255

Sacramento, CA 94244-2550

Telephone:, (916) 322-9226

Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 08-2006-178477
HAROLD AUSTIN TATE, M.D,

8680 Mesa Canogo Drive

Las Vegas, Nevada 89148 ACCUSATION

Physician and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 74583

Respondent.
Complainant alleges:
PARTIES
1, Complainant, Dave Thornton, is the Executive Director of the Medical

Board of California (hereinafter the "Board") and brings this accusation solely in his official
capacity,

2. On or about July 7, 1992, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician and Surgeon's Certificate Number G 74583 to Harold Austin Tate, M.D. (Respondent),
and at al] times relevant to the charges brought herein, this license has been in full force and
effect. Unless renewed, Respondent’s Physician and Surgeon’s license wil] expire on January
31, 2008.

Nn



Jd

JURISDICTION

3. This Accusation is brought before the Division of Medical Quality of the
Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs (hereinafter the "Division"),
under the authority of the following sections of the California Business and Professions Code
(hereinafter "Code") and/or other relevant statutory enactment:

4, Section 2227 of the Code provides that a licensee who is found guilty
under the Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended for a period not
to exceed one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of probation monitoring, or
such other action taken in relation to discipline as the Division deems proper.

5. Section 2234 of the Code states:

"The Division of Medical Quality shall take action against any licensee who is
charged with unprofessional conduct. In addition to other provisions of this article,
unprofessional conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:

“(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption which is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon."

6. Section 2236 of the Code states:

"(a) The conviction of any offense substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon constitutes unprofessional conduct within
the meaning of this chapter [Chapter 5, the Medical Practice Act]. The record of
conviction shall be conclusive evidence only of the fact that the conviction occurred,

"(b) The district attorney, city attorney, or other prosecuting agency shall notify
the Division of Medical Quality of the pendency of an action against a licensee charging a
felony or misdemeanor immediately upon obtaining information that the defendant isa
licensee. The notice shall identify the licensee and describe the crimes charged and the
facts alleged. The prosecuting agency shall also notify the'clerk of the court in which the
action is pending that the defendant is a licensee, and the clerk shall record prominently
in the file that the defendant holds a license as a physician and surgeon,

"(c) The clerk of the court in which a licensee is convicted of a crime shall,


h wn

rey

i


within 48 hours after the conviction, transmit a certified copy of the record of conviction to the
board. The division may inquire into the circumstances surrounding the commission of a crime
in order to fix the degree of discipline or to determine if the conviction is of an offense
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon.
"@) A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction afier a plea of nolo contendere is
deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this section and Section 2236.1. The

record of conviction shal] be conclusive evidence of the fact that the conviction

occurred."
FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Dishonesty)
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 2234(e)]
1. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234(e) of the

Code in that he failed to file tax returns for three years and was convicted of one felony count of
failure to file income tax retums which constitutes a dishonest act which is substantially related
to his qualifications as a physician and surgeon. The circumstances are as follows:

8. In the case of People of the State of California v. Harold Austin Tate
(Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, 2007, No. BA309062), Respondent pled guilty to one felony
violation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax. The underlying
facts and circumstance are as follows:

a. Respondent did not file tax returns for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004.

b. On or about February 7, 2007, Respondent was charged with three (3)
counts of failing to file a tax return in viol ation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706.

c On or about February 7, 2007, Respondent pled guilty to one felony
violation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax. Respondent’s
sentence was suspended and he was placed on three years probation, ordered to pay $35,138.00
in restitution, ordered to reimburse the Franchise Tax Board for the costs of its investigation and
fined $10,000 plus penalty assessments,

M11



9. Respondent’s failure to pay income taxes for the years 2002, 2003 and
2004 constitutes a dishonest act which is substantially related to his qualifications as a physician
and surgeon within the meaning of section 2234(e) of the Code. Respondent’s felony conviction
for violation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax also
constitutes a dishonest act which is substantially related to his qualifications as a physician and
surgeon within the meaning of section 2234(e) of the Code.
SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Conviction of Crime)
(Bus, & Prof. Code § 2236]

10. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under section 2236 of the
Code in that his felony conviction for failing to file tax returns in violation of Revenue and Tax
Code section 19706 constitutes conviction of an offense substantially related to the
qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon. The circumstances are set forth
below.

11. Complainant realleges paragraph 8 as if fully set forth herein.

12. Respondent’s conviction for a felony violation of Revenue and Tax Code
section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax constitutes conviction of an offense substantially
related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon within the meaning
of section 2236 of the Code.

PRAYER

WHEREFORE, complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein
alleged and that, following the hearing, the Division issue a decision:

1. Revoking or suspending Physician & Surgeon's Certificate Number
G 74583, issued to Harold Austin Tate, M.D.

2. Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Harold Austin Tate, M.D.'s
authority to supervise physician's assistants, pursuant to Section 3527 of the Code;

‘1

aN

a nw


3.

is imposed; and

DATED:

4.

Ordering Respondent to pay the costs of probation monitoring if probation

Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and proper.

July 26, 2007

DAVE THORNTON
Executive Director
Medical Board of California
Department of Consumer Affairs
State of California
Complainant

