
ey
b&b Ww NY | O&O

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

— at
NN WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

NO
foe)


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
) |
In The Matter of Charges and ) ''CCase-No-08-42-669-1——————
) FILED _ Alar per (2 2oeg
Complaint Against (i ID
Respondent. )

COMPLAINT AND REQUEST FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF
RESPONDENT?’S ABILITY TO PRESCRIBE, ADMINISTER, OR DISPENSE
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of Nevada,

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Benjamin J. Rodriquez, M.D., Member, and
Jean Stoess, Member, by and through Edward O. Cousineau, General Counsel for the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that
KEVIN R. BUCK WALTER, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent", has engaged in conduct
that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby alleges, charges
and complains against said Respondent as follows:

1. Respondent was licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada on December 8, 1997 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, and at all times addressed herein was

so licensed.

2. Respondent operates a medical practice specializing in Family Practice and
Pediatrics.
3. Previous to the preparation of this Complaint, the Nevada State Board of Medical

Examiners has solicited the services of an independent medical expert to review the medical
records of numerous patients treated by Respondent. The review, received on

November 4, 2008, concluded that Respondent’s controlled substances prescribing patterns and

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



associated medical record keeping was severely lacking and inconsistent with the expected
standard of care in multiple patients treated by Respondent. Four of the medical records relate to
patients who will be herein referred to as Patients A, B, C and D. The patients’ true identities
have not been disclosed to protect their privacy, but are disclosed in a separate Patient
Designation incorporated by reference to this Complaint.

4. From approximately April 4, 2007 to April 2, 2008, Respondent wrote
approximately forty-nine prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient A. Respondent’s
medical record keeping relating to the prescribing of controlled substances for Patient A does not |
include any evaluation of the response to prescribed medications, reasons for medication
increases, functional changes or evaluations, or explanation or justification as to why Alprazolam
therapy was initiated for Patient A or why the therapy was started at the maximum allowable
dosage without any titration or trial of a lower prescriptive dosage. Further, there is no indication
in Patient A’s medical records that Respondent discharged the patient from his practice.

5. From approximately June 29, 2006 through April 4, 2008, Respondent wrote
approximately sixty-one prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient B. Patient B received
large doses of controlled substances without adequate documentation in the medical records of
Patient B’s response to the medications, the reasons for increases in the prescriptions, or
justification for the initiation of Alprazolam therapy or why the therapy was started at the
maximum allowable dosage without any titration or trial of a lower prescriptive dosage. Further,
there is no indication in Patient B’s medical records that Respondent discharged the patient from
his practice.

6. From approximately January 18, 2007 to April 9, 2008, Respondent wrote
approximately seventy-one prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient C. Respondent’s
medical record keeping relating to the prescribing of controlled substances for Patient C include
very minimal record keeping relating to examinations and reasons for. medication changes
relating to narcotics, benzodiazepines and muscle relaxers. Additionally, there are no records
relating to treatment outcomes, intensity or duration of pain, beyond Patient C’s initial

Mf

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



presentation, no documentation of changes in ability to function or continued unrelieved pain that
justified increases in controlled substance prescriptions.

7. From approximately May 13, 2004 to December 14, 2005, Respondent wrote
approximately thirty-four prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient D. Respondent’s
controlled substances prescribing patterns and associated medical record keeping is severely
lacking, and further, Respondent’s excessive prescribing of Oxycontin and Kadian to Patient D at
the end of Respondent’s treatment course, contributed to the death of Patient D, due to
Respondent’s failure to recognize that Patient D had become narcotic naive due to a protracted
lapse in Patient D’s narcotic usage.

8. Respondent’s medical records relating to the aforementioned patients as well as
the opinions of the independent medical expert were reviewed by Jerry Calvanese, M.D. Dr.
Calvanese’s review concluded that Respondent’s medical record keeping for the medical
treatment of prescribing controlled substances for Patients A, B, C, D and other patients was
inconsistent with the standard of care that should be expected in the same or similar

circumstances. See Exhibit 1 - Affidavit of Jerry Calvanese, M.D.

9. NRS 0.031 defines Controlled Substances as a drug, immediate precursor or other
substance with is listed in schedule I, II, III, TV or V for control by the State Board of Pharmacy
pursuant to NRS 453.146 and NAC 453.510 to NAC 453.550.

10. As a standard of practice, the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners has
adopted the Model Guidelines for the Use of Controlled Substances for the Treatment of Pain
under NAC 630.187. The guidelines require before a physician may prescribe controlled
substances for a patient, he must perform an evaluation of the patient, take a complete medical
history, perform a physical examination of the patient, formulate a treatment plan, conduct
periodic reviews for adjustments and stated treatment objectives, and all must be fully
documented in the patient’s medical office chart.

COUNT I
11. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth

herein.

S
es
aa
eo wn
Bad
— Jo
ae 8 o
eg
gor
oS
Bev
Sm

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



12. Respondent’s prescribing of controlled substances for Patients A, B, C and D
constitutes malpractice.

13. Malpractice is defined at NAC 630.040 as “the failure of a physician, in treating a
patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.”

14, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent has violated NRS 630.301(4) and NAC
630.187, and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

COUNT I

15. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

16. Respondent failed to maintain accurate and complete medical records relating to
his prescribing of controlled substances for Patients A, B, C and D.

17. NRS 630.3062(1) states that failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and
complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds for
discipline.

18. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent has violated NRS 630.3062(1) and
NAC 630.187, and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

COUNT Til

19. All of the above paragraphs are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein.

20. NAC 630.230(1)(1) provides that a physician shall not engage in the practice of
writing prescriptions for controlled substances to treat acute pain or chronic pain in a manner that
deviates from the guidelines set forth in the Model Guidelines for the Use of Controlled
Substances for the Treatment of Pain adopted by reference in NAC 630.187.

21. | Respondent’s prescribing of controlled substances to Patients A, B, C and D
without maintaining accurate records is not authorized by law.

22. NRS 630.306(3) provides that it is grounds for initiating disciplinary action if a
licensee administers, dispenses, or prescribes any controlled substance to others except as

authorized by law.


ey

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

NN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

i)
oo

23. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent has violated NRS 630.306(3),

NAC 630.187, and NAC 630.230(1)(), and is subject to discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.
WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners prays as follows:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners schedule an emergency meeting
by telephone conference, and that the Board review the above Complaint, with exhibits, and any
other evidence, argument or presentation, find that Respondent poses a threat to the health and safety
of patients he sees and treats, or may see and treat, as well as the public in general, and summarily
suspend Respondent’s ability to prescribe, administer, or dispense controlled substances in Nevada
pending a hearing on this Complaint, and,

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners conduct a hearing on the
Complaint herein as provided by statute, find and determine that Respondent has violated one or
more provisions of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), enter findings of fact, conclusions
of law, and an order imposing sanctions upon Respondent according to NRS 630.352; and

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this 12” day of November, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of
The Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
+ SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _)

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under
penalty of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board
of Medical Examiners that investigated the complaint against Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon the results of the Investigative Committee’s
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, the allegations and charges in the foregoing
Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

Dated this 12" day of November 2008.

CARO

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D. —

EXHIBIT

1105 Terminal Way # 301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
a


In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 08-12069-1
Complaint Against )
KEVIN R. BUCKWALTER, M.D., )
Respondent. )

AFFIDAVIT OF JERRY C. CALVANESE

STATE OF NEVADA )

) ss.

COUNTY OF WASHOE _)

I, JERRY CALVANESE, being first duly sworn upon oath, hereby depose and state under

penalty of perjury as follows:

1.

I have been a licensed physician in the state of Nevada since 1979 and I am Board
certified in Emergency Medicine.

Currently, I am employed as a Medical Reviewer for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners.

I make this Affidavit in support of the Complaint and Request for Summary Suspension of
Dr. Buckwalter’s ability to prescribe controlled substances being advanced by the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners.

The statements herein are based upon my own personal knowledge except as otherwise
expressly stated, or indicated by the context, to be upon information and belief.

As part of my duties as a Medical Reviewer, I have reviewed the medical records of
numerous patients who were prescribed controlled substances during their care and
treatment by Dr. Buckwalter, along with the professional opinions of independent
medical expert retained by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

A vast majority of the records include essentially no physical exam. Even when there is

documentation in the records of a physical exam, the documentation is mostly illegible. In


SS = = =

(775) 688-2559


1105 Terminal Way # 301
Reno, Nevada 89502

—_>
Nn WN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
N N N N N No iw) iw) —_ _ _

N
ao

the few legible records, the medical documentation is extremely generalized. As a result,
the lack of documentation makes it nearly impossible to assess and analyze Dr.
Buckwalter’s medical decision making regarding the controlled substance prescriptions he
wrote for the patients.

7. In addition, my review has created concerns in my mind that Dr. Buckwalter has
administered inappropriate narcotic shots in the office setting and not taken proper steps to
ensure patient safety thereto.

8. I believe that the vague, haphazard, and illegible documentation of Dr. Buckwalter’s
medical decision making is both inconsistent with the expectations enunciated in the
Model Guidelines for the Use of Controlled Substances for the Treatment of Pain and with

the expected medical standard of care as it relates to prescribing controlled substances.

A

Further Affiant sayeth naught.

Subscribed and sworn to before me
this 7 day of November, 2008.

Notary Public

ANGELIA L. DONOHOE

&\ Notary Public - State of Nevada
47 Appointment Recorded in Washoe County
No: 02-73021-2 - Expires January 31, 2010

