kr WD WN



For Publie
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against CiSe- No: 08-19247-1
FILED 96 yge/ WA -TALS
HAROLD TATE, M.D., Lemon fa CELL
EAXECU live DIRECTOR
Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed

of Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., Chairman, and S. Daniel McBride, M.D., Member, by and through].
Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that
Harold Tate, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter
630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as
follows:

1. Respondent was granted a license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on
September 13, 2000, and at all times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent was granted a license to practice medicine in the state of California on or
about July 7, 1992. On July 26, 2007, the state of California filed a two-count Accusation against
Respondent alleging Dishonesty and Conviction of a Crime on the part of Respondent. See Exhibit A.

3. Thereafter, on, the state of California entered an Order revoking Respondent’s license to
practice medicine, however, that revocation was stayed, and Respondent was placed on probation with
multiple conditions for a period of five years beginning on March 21, 2008.

il



4. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that the revocation,
suspension, modification or limitation of the license to practice any type of medicine by any other
jurisdiction is grounds for disciplinary action.

5. The stayed revocation of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of
California, constitute violations of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

6. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statute 630.301(3),
and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Nevada
Revised Statute 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time and
place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4, That the Board makes, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of
law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this %¢ day of May, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners




VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF CLARK )

Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint

against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Sohail U. Anjum, MB.

Dated this 20” day of May, 2008.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 20" day of May 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF PRE-
HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING, SETTLEMENT, WAIVER & CONSENT
AGREEMENT, along with copy of appointment letter, by mailing via Fed-Ex Express Saver to
the following:
Harold Tate, M.D.

8680 Mesa Canogo Dr.
| Las Vegas, NV 89148

Dated this 20" day of May 2008.

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT
A


- 417




EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Attomey General FILED

- of the State of California STATE OF CALIFORNIA

AIL M. MEDICAL .

Supervising Deputy Attorney General SACRAMENT BOARD OF salle

G. LYNN THORPE, State Bar No. 112122 Opty Ze 2007

C Deputy Attomey General BY (Af or 2 Lt, __ ANALYST
alitornia Department of Justice MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORN

treet, Suite 125 _
PO Be of Hons ° I do hereby certify that this document is
Sacramento, CA 94244-2550 and correct copy of the original on file in

office.

Telephone: (916) 322-9226
Facsimile: (916) 327-2247

LA

true
this

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE

DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY RECEIVED
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA .
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS — APR 7.4 iii

STATE OF CALIFORNIA oo
. PETIA AL TV ANAINIT
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Case No. 08-2006-178477
HAROLD AUSTIN TATE, M.D.
8680 Mesa Canogo Drive
Las Vegas, Nevada 89148 ACCUSATION

Physician and Surgeon's Certificate No. G 74583

Respondent.
Complainant alleges:
PARTIES
1. Complainant, Dave Thornton, is the Executive Director of the Medical

Board of California (hereinafter the "Board") and brings this accusation solely in his official
capacity.

2. On or about July 7, 1992, the Medical Board of California issued
Physician and Surgeon's Certificate Number G 74583 to Harold Austin Tate, M.D. (Respondent),
and at all times relevant to the charges brought herein, this license has been in full force and
effect. Unless renewed, Respondent’s Physician and Surgeon’s license will expire on January
31, 2008.


JURISDICTION

3. This Accusation is brought before the Division of Medical Quality of the

Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs (hereinafter the "Division"),

under the authority of the following sections of the California Business and Professions Code
(hereinafter "Code") and/or other relevant statutory enactment:

4, Section 2227 of the Code provides that a licensee who is found guilty
under the Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended for a period not
to exceed one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of probation monitoring, or

such other action taken in relation to discipline as the Division deems proper.

5. Section 2234 of the Code states:

"The Division of Medical Quality shall take action against any licensee who is
charged with unprofessional conduct. In addition to other provisions of this article,
unprofessional conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:

"(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption which is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon."

6. Section 2236 of the Code states:

"(a) The conviction of any offense substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon constitutes unprofessional conduct within
the meaning of this chapter [Chapter 5, the Medical Practice Act]. The record of
conviction shall be conclusive evidence only of the fact that the conviction occurred.

"(b) The district attorney, city attorney, or other prosecuting agency shall notify
the Division of Medical Quality of the pendency of an action against a licensee charging a
felony or misdemeanor immediately upon obtaining information that the defendant is a
licensee. The notice shall identify the licensee and describe the crimes charged and the
facts alleged. The prosecuting agency shall also notify the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending that the defendant is a licensee, and the clerk shall record prominently
in the file that the defendant holds a license as a physician and surgeon.

"(c) The clerk of the court in which a licensee is convicted of a crime shall,


“24

within 48 hours after the conviction, transmit a certified copy of the record of conviction to the
board. The division may inquire into the circumstances surrounding the commission of a crime
in order to fix the degree of discipline or to determine if the conviction is of an offense
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon.
"(d) A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction after a plea of nolo contendere is
deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this section and Section 2236.1. The

record of conviction shall be conclusive evidence of the fact that the conviction

occurred."
FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Dishonesty)
[Bus. & Prof. Code § 2234(e)]
7. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under section 2234(e) of the

Code in that he failed to file tax returns for three years and was convicted of one felony count of
failure to file income tax returns which constitutes a dishonest act which is substantially related
to his qualifications as a physician and surgeon. The circumstances are as follows:

8. In the case of People of the State of California v. Harold Austin Tate
(Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, 2007, No. BA309062), Respondent pled guilty to one felony
violation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax. The underlying
facts and circumstance are as follows:

a. Respondent did not file tax returns for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004.

b. On or about February 7, 2007, Respondent was charged with three (3)
counts of failing to file a tax return in violation of Revenue and Tax Code section ] 9706.

c. On or about February 7, 2007, Respondent pled guilty to one felony
violation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax. Respondent’s
sentence was suspended and he was placed on three years probation, ordered to pay $35,138.00
in restitution, ordered to reimburse the Franchise Tax Board for ihe costs of its investigation and
fined $10,000 plus penalty assessments.



9. Respondent’s failure to pay income taxes for the years 2002, 2003 and
2004 constitutes a dishonest act which is substantially related to his qualifications as a physician
and surgeon within the meaning of section 2234(e) of the Code. Respondent’s felony conviction
for violation of Revenue and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax also
constitutes a dishonest act which is substantially related to his qualifications as a physician and
surgeon within the meaning of section 2234(e) of the Code.
| SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Conviction of a Crime)
[Bus. & Prof. Code § 2236]

10. Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under section 2236 of the
Code in that his felony conviction for failing to file tax returns in violation of Revenue and Tax
Code section 19706 constitutes conviction of an offense substantially related to the
qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon. The circumstance are set forth
below.

11. Complainant realleges paragraph 8 as if fully set forth herein. ©

12. | Respondent’s conviction for conviction for a felony violation of Revenue
and Tax Code section 19706, Failing to File Income Tax constitutes conviction of an offense
substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician and surgeon within
the meaning of section 2236 of the Code.

PRAYER

WHEREFORE complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein
alleged and that, following the hearing, the Division issue a decision:

1, Revoking or suspending Physician and Surgeon's Number G 74583, issued
to Harold Austin Tate, M.D. .

2.0 Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Harold Austin Tate, M.D.'s
authority to supervise physician's assistants, pursuant to section 3527 of the Code;

1]


2]

3. Ordering Respondent to pay the costs of probation monitoring if probation
is imposed; and

4. Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and proper.

DATED: July 26, 2007

DAVE THORNTON

Executive Director

Medical Board of California
Department of Consumer Affairs
State of California

Complainant

