OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

g

vu




as
age3a
SES
3 RS wa
fs a8
Ses
aa ~
EEZG
Ss ak
Se ok
Ars
Se
a

a

es


Ss


u

vA



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and ) N@ase No. 08-12069-4
Complaint A ) FILED _ A/arehes (2, 2078
omplaint Against
KEVIN R. BUCKWALTER, M.D., ) CLERK OF THE BOARD
Respondent. )

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF RESPONDENT’S ABILITY TO
PRESCRIBE, ADMINISTER, OR DISPENSE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES

This matter came on for hearing at an emergency meeting of the Nevada State Board of

Medical Examiners (Board) convened pursuant to NRS 241.020 and conducted telephonically on
the 12" day of November, 2008, to consider the request for summary suspension of Respondent’s
ability to prescribe, administer, or dispense controlled substances filed herein on
November 12, 2008 by the Board’s Investigative Committee. A quorum of the members of the
Board who constitute the adjudicative panel in this case, consisting of Sohail U. Anjum, M.D.,
Javaid Anwar, M.D., S. Daniel McBride, M.D. and Mr. Van V. Heffner, Board Members, were
present telephonically. Edward O. Cousineau, General Counsel for the Board, appeared as
counsel for the Investigative Committee.

The adjudicative panel reviewed the Investigative Committee’s Complaint, the request for
summary suspension contained therein, and the attached exhibit. Upon review of the Complaint,
request for summary suspension and attached exhibit, as well as the argument and presentation of
counsel for the Investigative Committee, the adjudicative members of the Board find and
conclude by a preponderance of evidence:

1. That Respondent is a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Nevada and possesses the ability to prescribe controlled substances without limitation,

Mf

3S
aa
Ss
Ban
a28
£5
EAS
ocr
HEe~
B ex
S


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



2. That from approximately April 4, 2007 to April 2, 2008, Respondent wrote
approximately forty-nine prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient A. The related
medical records contain inadequate documentation of Patient A’s response to prescribed
medications, reasons for medication increases, functional changes or evaluations, or explanation
or justification as to why Alprazolam therapy was initiated for Patient A or why the therapy was
started at the maximum allowable dosage without any titration or trial of a lower prescriptive
dosage,

3. That from approximately June 29, 2006 through April 4, 2008, Respondent wrote
approximately sixty-one prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient B. The related
medical records contain inadequate documentation of Patient B’s response to the medications, the
reasons for increases in the prescriptions, or justification for the initiation of Alprazolam therapy
or why the therapy was started at the maximum allowable dosage without any titration or trial of
a lower prescriptive dosage,

4. That from approximately January 18, 2007 to April 9, 2008, Respondent wrote
approximately seventy-one prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient C. Respondent’s
medical record keeping relating to the prescribing of controlled substances for Patient C include
very minimal record keeping relating to examinations and reasons for medication changes
relating to narcotics, benzodiazepines and muscle relaxers, and there are no records relating to
treatment outcomes, intensity or duration of pain, beyond Patient C’s initial presentation, no
documentation of changes in ability to function or continued unrelieved pain that justified
increases in controlled substance prescriptions,

5. That from approximately May 13, 2004 to December 14, 2005, Respondent wrote
approximately thirty-four prescriptions for controlled substances for Patient D. Respondent’s
controlled substances prescribing patterns and associated medical record keeping is severely
lacking, and further, Respondent’s excessive prescribing of Oxycontin and Kadian to Patient D at
the end of Respondent’s treatment course, contributed to the death of Patient D, due to
Respondent’s failure to recognize that Patient D had become narcotic naive due to a protracted

lapse in Patient D’s narcotic usage,


a es ee

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

—_
nN GN

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF-THE GENERAL COUNSEL

N
oO

6. That unforeseen circumstances have arisen and exist that pose a risk of
impairment of the health and safety of the public and that require immediate Board action,
especially because the Board’s investigation is on-going based upon patient complaints that
continue to be received, and which are based upon conduct similar to the conduct described in
this Order. Therefore, allowing Respondent to continue to prescribe, administer, or dispense
controlled substances presents an unacceptable risk to the citizens of Nevada.

Now therefore, pursuant to NRS 233B.127:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the ability of Respondent, Kevin R. Buckwalter, M.D.,
to prescribe, administer, or dispense controlled substances in the state of Nevada is hereby
suspended pending proceedings for disciplinary action pursuant to the Complaint filed herein and
issuance of a final order, or until further order of this Board.

Dated this 12™ day of November, 2008.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:

Renee West
Secretary-Treasurer

