
ecu AAR OS & SF Owe AU AARSEH ES

For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RREKRKS

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against NO. Case] -11489-1 ron
ADELAIDA RESUELLO, M.D., FILED ob (ebAuen
Respondent. XECUTIVE DIR
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the state of Nevada,
composed of Charles Held, M.D., Chairman, Cindy Lamerson, M.D., Member, and Jean Stoess, M.A.,
Memter, by and through Lyn E. Beggs, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Adelaida Resuello, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint,
stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, and at
all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to

the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent was granted a license to practice medicine by the state of New York in
January 1994.
3. A formal disciplinary complaint was filed against Respondent by the Nevada State Board

of Medical Examiners on October 30, 2006.
4, The disciplinary matter was resolved by a Settlement Waiver and Consent Agreement
which was accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on March 16, 2007, and an order

was issued finding that Respondent had violated provisions of the Medical Practice Act

(NRS Chapter 630) and placing Respondent on probation.



5. Based on the action taken by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, the state of
New York took disciplinary action against Respondent.

6. Respondent signed an agreement with the state of New York on September 25, 2007,
surrendering her license to practice medicine in that state.

7. To date, Respondent has failed to inform the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
that she surrendered her New York medical license.

Count I

8. Section 630.306(11) provides that the failure by a licensee or applicant to report, within
30 days the revocation, suspension or surrender of a license to practice medicine in another jurisdiction
is grounds for discipline.

9. The failure of Respondent to report the surrender of her license to practice medicine in
the state of New York within 30 days constitutes a violation of the provisions of NRS 630.306(11).

10. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a formal
hearing;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against her, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against her;

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose for the violation or violations committed by Respondent, and.

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and




That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further action as

may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this CA _ day of February, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Sai

Lyn E. Beggs :
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint

against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this AGT __ day of Febrinary , 2008.

CO pri SO _

Charles N. Held, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 26" day of February 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF
PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING and appointment letter, by mailing via USPS
certified return receipt mail to the following:
Adelaida Resuello, M.D.

1300 S. Maryland Pkwy
Las Vegas, NV 89104

Dated this 26" day of February 2008.

a é Li J De how
Angelia Donohoe

Legal Assistant

