OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
RREKS
In The Matter of Charges and ) No. Case No. 08-10701-2
) .
Complaint Against ) FILED J2e center (, 2008
) Ao
STEPHEN SELDON, M.D., ) CLERK OF THE BOARD
Respondent. )

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE
MEDICINE

This matter came on for hearing at an emergency meeting of the Nevada State Board of

Medical Examiners (Board) convened pursuant to NRS 241.020 and conducted telephonically on
the 1 day of December, 2008, to consider the request for summary suspension of Respondent’s
license to practice medicine filed herein on December 1, 2008 by the Board’s Investigative
Committee. A quorum of the members of the Board who constitute the adjudicative panel in this
case, consisting of Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., Javaid Anwar, M.D., S. Daniel McBride, M.D., Ms.
Renee West and Mr. Van V. Heffner, Board Members, were present telephonically. Also present
telephonically was Christine Guerci-Nyhus, Chief Deputy Attorney General as counsel for the
Board. Lyn E. Beggs, General Counsel for the Board, appeared as counsel for the Investigative
Committee.

The adjudicative panel reviewed the Investigative Committee’s Complaint, the request for
summary suspension contained therein, and the attached exhibits. Upon review of the
Complaint, request for summary suspension and attached exhibits, as well as the argument and
presentation of counsel for the Investigative Committee, the adjudicative members of the Board
find and conclude by a preponderance of evidence:

1. That Dr. Seldon is a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of Nevada

performing primarily cosmetic medical procedures at a medical practice that was known as “A

wy

ie]

a

sf


rate

WM eyreeR

Z2e33

Msgs

m EEA
ge gb

Rese

Ren

S|

az

>I

fe




New You Medical Aesthetics” (“A New You”), now known as “Medical Aesthetics and
Cosmetic Surgery”; and

2. That between October 2003 and September 2005, Dr. Seldon and his wife
purchased botulinum neurotoxin type A from Toxin Research International (“TRI”) which was
not an FDA approved manufacturer of botulinum neurotoxin type A for human use. The
botulinum neurotoxin type A manufactured by “TRI” was known as TRItox and each vial was
labeled, “For research purposed only, not for human use.” This warning was repeated on TRI’s
invoices; and

3. That despite labeling and warnings regarding TRItox not being for human use,
Dr. Seldon administered TRItox to his patients at “A New You” without informing them that he
was not administering FDA-approved Botox, the only botulinum neurotoxin type A approved for
human use, which is manufactured by Allergan. “A New You” and Dr. Seldon also made certain
representations regarding his training by Allergan, his expertise based on that training and his use
of Botox; and

4. That based on conduct of Dr. Seldon and his wife, each was charged by Criminal
Indictment resultant from a federal grand jury with fourteen counts of mail fraud under 18 U.S.C.
§ 1341 and one count of misbranding a drug while held for sale under 21 U.S.C. § 331(k). A jury
trial was held and on November 19, 2008, the jury found both Dr. and Mrs. Seldon guilty of each
of the fifteen counts made against them. They were released upon their own recognizance
pending sentencing which is set for February 19, 2009; and

5. That based upon the conviction of Dr. Seldon, the Nevada State Board of
Pharmacy immediately suspended his controlled substance registration pursuant to
NRS 630.2121 on November 24, 2008; and

6. That the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners has also recently filed a disciplinary action containing two counts of malpractice
regarding Dr. Seldon’s care a of patient who underwent a tumescent liposuction procedure which
he performed; and
Ml

B38
Aa
BG
2d

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



7. That unforeseen circumstances have arisen and exist that pose a risk of
impairment of the health and safety of the public and that require immediate Board action,
especially as it is believed that Dr. Seldon is currently practicing medicine, primarily cosmetic
medical procedures, while he is out of custody pending sentencing, which could include
substantial prison time, on criminal charges related to conduct that placed his patients at risk and
showed a substantial disregard for their safety and welfare and accordingly is able to engage in
the same course of conduct described in this Order. Therefore, emergency action by the Board to
prevent Dr. Seldon from seeing and treating patients or other members of the public is needed as
allowing Dr. Seldon to continue to practice medicine poses an unacceptable risk to the citizens of
Nevada.

Now therefore, pursuant to NRS 233B.127:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the license of Respondent, Stephen Seldon, M.D.,
(License Number 7343) to practice medicine in the state of Nevada is hereby suspended pending
proceedings for disciplinary action pursuant to the Complaint filed herein and issuance of a final
order, or until further order of this Board.

Dated this 1 day of December, 2008.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

¢ Wat

By:

Renee West
Secretary-Treasurer

