

Far Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In The Matter of Charges and ) noes? No. 08-12142-1
Complaint Against ) FILED. Y Ara 4 usad BMF
MARIBEL MONROE, M.D. _)
Respondent. )

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Cindy Lamerson, M.D., Member, and Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A., Member
by and through Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Maribel Monroe, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630, hereby alleges, charges and complains against said Respondent as
follows:

1. Respondent is licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, and at
all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A was a forty-seven-year-old-year-old female at the time of events at issue. Her
true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is disclosed in the Patient Designation
served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On September 8, 2003, Respondent performed a total abdominal hysterectomy on Patient
A. A post-operative CT-scan of Patient A’s pelvis showed fluid in her pericolic gutters. Patient A was
subsequently discharged to home on September 14, 2003.

4, On September 23, 2003, Patient A presented to Respondent for a post-operative check

without complaint. On October 8, 2003, Patient A presented to Respondent with complaints of clear



vaginal fluid leakage. Respondent’s examination of Patient A showed an opening in Patient A’s vaginal
cuff. Respondent performed a surgical repair of Patient A’s vaginal cuff on October 11, 2003.

5. On October 12, 2003, Patient A underwent testing, which indicated a pelvic abscess. An
exploratory laparotomy to remove Patient A’s pelvic abscess was accomplished that same day without
event.

6. After this surgical procedure, Patient A developed a postoperative ileus. Various
specialists were consulted to assist with Patient A’s treatment course. On October 29, 2003, an
intravenous pyelogram was performed which showed an injury to Patient A’s right ureter. Thereafter,
Patient A underwent a right-sided urethral reconstruction to correct the previously discovered ureter
injury.

COUNTI

7. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in full.
Section 630.301(4) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that malpractice, defined as the failure to
use the reasonable knowledge, skill and expertise ordinarily used in similar circumstances, is grounds
for discipline.

8. Respondent committed malpractice in the course of providing care and treatment to
Patient A, when she failed to timely and accurately diagnose an injury to Patient A’s right ureter, and is
therefore subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as provided in
NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays that the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners conduct a hearing on the Complaint herein as provided by statute, find and determine that
Respondent has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), enter
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and an order imposing sanctions upon Respondent according to
NRS 630.352 and take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this aay of August, 2008.

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners




VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
2 SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS |)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that investigated the complaint against Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon the results of the Investigative Committee’s investigation into a complaint
against Respondent, the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true,
accurate and correct.

Dated this 4 Pay of August, 2008.

COAX CAD

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that on
the 4" day of August 2008, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF
PREHEARING/HEARING, PATIENT DESIGNATION & copy of appointment letter by mailing via

USPS certified return receipt to the following:

Maribel Monroe, M.D.
3150 N. Tenaya Way, Ste. 590
Las Vegas, NV 89128

Dated this 4" day of August 2008.

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

