

For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KEK ES

In the Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against Case No. 08-12826-1
NO.
FADI HAMWI, M.D., eieD 1O MAth Aor
Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed

of Charles N. Held, M.D., Cindy Lamerson, M.D., and Jean Stoess, Member, by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the IC, having a reasonable basis to believe that
Fadi Hamwi, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter
630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as
follows:

1, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine as a Medical-Doctor-Foreign in the State
of Nevada on May 30, 2000. Respondent’s license to practice medicine is currently suspended for non-
payment; however, at all times alleged herein, Respondent was licensed in active status by the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes.

2. During his period of active-licensure, Respondent had medical-staff-privileges at several
hospitals in the Las Vegas metropolitan area, including Valley and Mt. View Hospitals.

3, In January of 2007, Respondent’s staff privileges at Valley Hospital were automatically
voluntarily resigned after the hospital’s Medical Executive Committee concluded that, despite various

attempts on the part of the hospital to have Respondent remedy the matter, Respondent failed to



complete medical records for approximately one-hundred and seventy patients he had treated
previously at Valley Hospital. As of the date of this Complaint, the referenced medical records have
not been completed by Respondent.

4. In July of 2007, the Board was contacted by Mt. View Hospital and was apprised that
Respondent had failed to complete medical records for approximately ninety patients he had previously
treated at Mt. View Hospital. As of the date of this Complaint, the referenced medical records have not
been completed by Respondent.

5. The Board has attempted to contact Respondent by way of telephone and mailings to
Respondent’s permanent mailing address to speak to Respondent’s failure to complete the
aforementioned medical records. The Board has been unsuccessful in this regard, as Respondent
contact phone number is no longer in service, and mailings sent to Respondent have been returned as
undeliverable.

6. Section 630.3062(1) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that failure to maintain
timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a
patient is grounds for discipline.

7. ~ Section 630.306(9) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that failure to comply with the
requirements of Nevada Revised Statute 630.254 is grounds for discipline.

8. Section 630.254(1) requires that each licensee shall maintain a permanent mailing address
with the Board to which all communications from the Board to the licensee must be sent. And, a licensee
who changes his permanent mailing address shall notify the Board of his new permanent address within
thirty days after the change.

9. Based upon the forgoing, Respondent has violated Nevada Revised Statutes 630.3062(1)
and 630.306(9), and is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as provided
in Nevada Revised Statute 630.352. -

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time and place

set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;



3, That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of
law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this_/2™ day of March, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


Oo uA Ak OD S&S F CaedWV1i_AQaAREaS Hn ef Ss

VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this oT day of March, 2008.

© pode CS _

Charles N. Held, M.D.

N



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 10" day of March 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF PRE-
HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING, and appointment letter, by mailing via USPS certified
return receipt mail to the following:
Fadi Hamwi, M.D.

700 E. Warm Springs Rd. #100
Las Vegas, NV 89119

Dated this 10" day of March 2008.

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

