

For Public
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RREKKSK

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against

RONALD H. FOOTE, M.D.,
Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of Nevada (Board),

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D. and Cindy Lamerson, M.D., and Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A., by and
through Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Board, having a reasonable basis to
believe that Ronald H. Foote, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and
allegations, as follows:

1, Respondent is licensed in active status to practice medicine in the State of Nevada, and
was so licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes,
on December 4, 1999.

2. Respondent initially applied for medical licensure with the Board in July of 1999. As
part of the application process, Respondent was asked on the Application for Licensure, “[h]ave you
ever been investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere to any offense

or violation of any federal, state or local law, including any foreign country, which is a misdemeanor,

gross misdemeanor, or felony, excluding any minor traffic offense...” Respondent answered in the
negative.
3. In June of 2001, Respondent provided to the Board an Application for Registration

Renewal for the 2001-2003 licensure biennium. Respondent was again asked “[h]ave you ever been


eo Ua mo RBS FSF SBR RAARBHA = S

investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere to any offense or
violation of any federal, state or local law, including any foreign country, which is a misdemeanor, gross
misdemeanor, or felony, excluding any minor traffic offense...” Respondent answered in the
affirmative and provided documentation indicating that he had been charged with Driving Under the
Influence (DUI) in May of 2000, and that the charge was dismissed thereafter.

4, In June of 2003, Respondent provided to the Board an Application for Registration
Renewal for the 2003-2005 licensure biennium. Respondent was once again asked “[h]ave you ever
been investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere to any offense or
violation of any federal, state or local law, including any foreign country, which is a misdemeanor, gross

misdemeanor, or felony, excluding any minor traffic offense...” Respondent answered in the negative.

5. In May of 2005, Respondent provided to the Board an Application for Registration
Renewal for the 2005-2007 licensure biennium. Respondent was once again asked “[hJave you ever
been investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere to any offense or |’
violation of any federal, state or local law, including any foreign country, which is a misdemeanor, gross
misdemeanor, or felony, excluding any minor traffic offense...” Respondent answered in the positive
and indicated “see enclosed.” However, the enclosed materials included with the application did not
address the positive response.

6. A Federal Bureau of Investigations criminal background check conducted by the Board
revealed that Respondent was arrested in August of 1984 for assault. Additionally, the background
check revealed that in May of 1996, Respondent was arrested for burglary and battery. Lastly, the
background check revealed that in December of 2000, Respondent was arrested for obstructing a peace
officer and DUI.

7. Respondent failed to report to the Board any of the arrests referenced in paragraph 6 at any
time during the initial application or renewal of licensure process. Section 630.304(1) of the Nevada
Revised Statutes provides that obtaining, maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or
renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading,

inaccurate or incomplete statement is grounds for disciplinary action.



8. Respondent violated NRS 630.304(1) when he failed to disclose to the Board the arrests
referenced in paragraph 6 and is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time and
place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it determines to impose for the violation or
violations committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of
law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

DATED this @ “ day of February, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

b&b WN N



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

> SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this G* day of February, 2008.

Charles N. Held, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 6™ day of February 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF
PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING, along with appointment letter, by mailing via
USPS certified return receipt mail to the following:
Ronald H. Foote, M.D.

2320 Paseo Del Prado, Bidg. B #207
Las Vegas, NV 89102

Dated this 6" day of February 2008.

hoe 2D wahoo

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

