b&b Ww wv



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against NO Case No. 08-25112-1
AZBER ANSAR, M.D., FILED /2 Ser?..2ees
Respondent. foc oe fA. heh
——~EXECUTive JIRECTOR
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Cindy Lamerson, M.D., Member, and Jean Stoess, M.A., Member,
by and through Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Azber Ansar, M.D., hereinafter referred to as
"Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint,
stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is licensed in active status to practice medicine in the State of Nevada, and
at all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant
to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. On January 10, 2007, the State Medical Board of Ohio entered an Order suspending
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Ohio for a period of six months. (See Exhibit 1).

3. Thereafter, on February 20, 2008, the state of California entered an Order revoking
Respondent’s license to practice medicine, however, that revocation was stayed, and Respondent was
placed on probation with various conditions enunciated in the Order for a period of five years
beginning March 21, 2008. (See Exhibit 2).

HH
Hl




4. Section 630.301(3) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that the suspension,
modification or limitation of the license to practice any type of medicine by any other jurisdiction is
grounds for disciplinary action.

5. The stayed revocation of Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of
California, constitute violations of the provisions of NRS 630.301(3).

6. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a formal
hearing;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against
him;

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose for the violation or violations committed by Respondent; and

4. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further action as
may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this _/<2 ™ day of September, 2008.

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

5 ty
DATED this _/2 — day of September, 2008.

CHROYD _

Charles N. Held, M.D.

EXHIBIT
BEFORE THE STATE MEDICAL BOARD OF OHIO

IN THE MATTER OF *


AZBER AZHER ANSAR, M.D. ‘  *
ENTRY OF ORDER

This matter came on for consideration before the State Medical Board of Ohio on
January 10, 2007.

Upon the Report and Recommendation of Christopher B. McNeil, State Medical Board
Attorney Hearing Examiner, designated in this Matter pursuant to R.C. 4731.23, a true
copy of which Report and Recommendation is attached hereto and incorporated herein,
and upon the modification, approval and confirmation by vote of the Board on the above

date, the following Order is hereby entered on the Journal of the State Medical Board of
Ohio for the above date.

It is hereby ORDERED that:
SUSPENSION OF CERTIFICATE: The certificate of Azber Azher Ansar, M.D.
to practice medicine and surgery in the State of Ohio shall be SUSPENDED for a

period of six months.

This Order shall become effective immediately upon the mailing of notification of
approval by the Board.

Lave WAalnne

Lance A. Talmage, MD. KW
(SEAL) Secretary

January 10, 2007
Date

CP nt BOApn
A 2 be
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN THE MATTER OF AZBER AZHER ANSAR, M.D.

The Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D. was heard by Christopher B. McNeil, Esq., Hearing
Examiner for the State Medical Board of Ohio, on October 30, 2006.

INTRODUCTION

I. Basis for Hearing .

A.

In a letter dated August 9, 2006, the State Medical Board of Ohio [Board] notified
Azber Azher Ansar, M.D., that the Board intends to determine whether or not to limit,
revoke, permanently revoke, suspend, refuse to register or reinstate Dr. Ansar’s
certificate to practice medicine and surgery, or to reprimand him or place him on
probation, for one or more of the reasons set forth in the letter. The Board based its
proposed action on allegations that Dr. Ansar entered.“[a] plea of guilty to... a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude” as that clause is used in § 4731.22(B)(13) of
the Ohio Revised Code, Accordingly, the Board advised Dr. Ansar of his right to
yequest a hearing in this matter. (See State’s Exhibit [St. Ex.] 1A)

On September 8, 2006, the Board received a written hearing request submitted by
Dr. Ansar. (St. Ex. 1B).

Il. Appearances

A.

B.

On behalf of the State of Ohio: Jim Petro, Attorney General, by Barbara Pfeiffer and
Karen Unver, Assistant Attorneys General.

On behalf of the Respondent: Azber A. Ansar, M.D., pro se.

EVIDENCE EXAMINED

L Testimony Heard

Dy. Ansar testified on his own behalf.
e ¢

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 2 of 16

I.

Exhibits Examined

A.

Presented by the State

1.

2.

State’s Exhibits 1A through IF: Procedural exhibits.

State’s Exhibit 2: Police Incident Report re: June 30, 2005, incident.

State’s Exhibit 3: June 30, 2005, Complaint for filing a false police report.

State’s Exhibit 4: Petition io enter plea of guilty.

State’s Exhibit 5: Sentencing order.

Presented by the Respondent

1,

10,

Respondent's Exhibit A: September 20, 2005, Report of Dr. Plaud. SEALED
EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit B: Child Custody Evaluation. SEALED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit C: SIRC Recommendation. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit D: August 15, 2006, letter to Dr. Ansar from Arizona
Medical Board. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit E: July 26, 2006, letter to Dr. Ansar from Washington
Department of Health. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent's Exhibit F: May 15, 2006, letter io Dr. Ansar from lowa Board of
Medical Examiners. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit G: Letter to Dr. Ansar from Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit H: February 16, 2006, letter to Dr. Ansar from Wisconsin
Department of Regulation and Licensing. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit I: October 3, 2006, letter from Mary Swain.

Respondent’s Exhibit J:. October 2, 2006, letter from Linda Lund.

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.

Page 3 of 16

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19,

Respondent's Exhibit K and K-1: Post Commander’s Distinguished Service
Certificate and April 6, 2005, letter to Dr. Ansar from Sen. Mark Dayton.

Respondent’s Exhibit L-1 through L-15: State medical licenses.

Respondent's Exhibit M: AMA Physician’s.Recognition Award.

Respondent's Exhibit N: American Board of Internal Medicine, Diplomate
Certificate. ,

Respondent’s Exhibit O: September 22, 2003, letter to Dr. Ansar from
University of Minnesota. ,

Respondent’s Exhibit P: Califomia Medical Association Educational
Certificate.

Respondent’s Exhibit Q: four DVD disks: VA Daycare interaction.
PROFFERED EXHIBIT

Respondent’s Exhibit R: Notice of Motion and Motion, with attachments, from
which the Hearing Examiner received as a proffer only Respondent’s Motion
Exhibits E-1 through E-4 and F-1 and F2, due to the Examiner’s finding that
these are copies of documents that were not admissible during the hearing. In
addition, the Hearing Examiner removed Respondent’s Motion Exhibit J and
placed it under seal, due to the finding that this is the same as Respondent’s
Exhibit A, which is in the record under seal.

Respondent’s Exhibit §: Notice of Action by Department of Homeland
Security, and Passport photocopies. PROFFERED EXHIBIT

DR. ANSAR’S MOTION FOR NO FURTHER ACTION

Shortly before the start of the evidentiary hearing, Dr. Ansar filed a motion in which he asked for
an order that “no further action” be taken with respect to the charges now against him. (Resp. Ex.
R) He cited as authority for this motion Rule 4731-13-36(G). This motion is without merit and is
denied. The cited section provides that: ““No Further Action’ means that the Board finds that a
violation occurred but declines to impose any disciplinary sanction” and further provides that
this kind of disposition may be appropriate “under circumstances where the Board finds that all
necessary remedial measures have been completed by the certificate holder, future monitoring is
unnecessary and reprimand is not warranted.” For reasons set forth below, a sanction greater
than a reprimand is warranted in this matter, rendering inapplicable the provisions of the cited

Rule.
ae ¢

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 4 of 16

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

All exhibits and transcripts of testimony, even if not specifically mentioned, were thoroughly
reviewed and considered by the Hearing Examiner prior to preparing this Report and
Recommendation. Proffered evidence was preserved at the time of the evidentiary hearing and
has not been considered in preparing this report.

Background

1.

The Respondent, Dr. Azber Ansar, holds a certificate issued by the State Medical Board of
Ohio to practice medicine and surgery under License Number 35.078745. (Respondent’s
Exhibit [Resp. Ex.] L) There is no evidence that the Board has previously had any
occasion to consider any disciplinary charges against Dr. Ansar.

Dr. Ansar works for the Department of Veterans Affairs at the Minneapolis Veterans
Administration Medical Center. (Tr. at 15) He has worked there for over three and a half
years, and testified that he has never had any claims of malpractice or patient complaints
against him. (Resp. Ex. R).

In addition to being licensed to practice medicine and surgery in Ohio, Dr. Ansar
presented proof of his medical licensure in Nevada, Washington, Arizona, Utah, New
Mexico, North Dakota, Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Indiana,
Minnesota, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Dr. Ansar also
presented professional credentials, including a Physician’s Recognition Award presented
by the American Medical Association for continuing education, and a continuing
education certificate awarded by the Califomia Medical Association in September 2006
for participating in “Pain Management and End of Life Care in California’s Regulatory
Environment.” (Tr. at 54-57, and Resp. Ex. L, L1-15, M, N, O, P and R) ©

In addition to working as a Staff Physician in the Department of Medicine at the
Minneapolis V.A. Medical Center, where he carries a patient panel of 1,200 patients, since
June 1, 2003, Dr. Ansar has held a faculty position at the University of Minnesota Medical
School as an insiructor in medicine, and has been involved in the training of medical ,
students and resident physicians. He is board certified in internal medicine, and his current
certification is in good standing through 2012. (Resp. Ex. R)

Dr. Ansar is a member in good standing of the American Medical Association and the
American College of Physicians, and represents to the Board that he strictly abides by the
AMA Code of Medical Ethics. (Resp. Ex. R)

June 2005 Incident
Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 5 of 16

6.

On June 30, 2005, a complaint against Dr. Ansar was filed in the First Judicial District
Court in Dakota County, Minnesota, by an officer of the Eagan (Minnesota) Police
Department. Dr. Ansar was charged with fifth degree domestic assault (a misdemeanor),
and filing a false report (also a misdemeanor). (St. Ex. 3) The complaint was based upon
an incident occurring at the home of Dr. Ansar’s parents earlier that day. According to a
written report prepared by Officer Judy Dretzke of the Eagan Police Department, police
were dispatched to the home after receiving a call on 911, in which the caller claimed his
wife had cut him with a knife and was still at the residence. When Officer Dretzke arrived
at the scene, she found Dr. Ansar and his wife, Yasmeen Khan, M.D., and another male,
standing in the driveway. Officer Dretzke asked where the knife was, and Dr. Khan
indicated it was in the passenger seat of a Lexus in the driveway. (St. Ex. 2 at 3; and Tr. at
82 for the correct spelling of Dr. Khan’s last name.)

With the assistance of another officer, Officer Dretzke separated the parties, and both Dr.
Ansar and Dr. Khan gave tape-recorded statements describing what had transpired.
Officer Dretzke wrote that, in Dr. Ansar’s statement to her, he described the following:

Ansar advised that his wife and he had been separated for
approximately six months and they had been taking tums keeping their four-
year-old son. On this date, Ansar stated that it was his wife’s turn to have
their son for the evening but the day care that their son went to took a field
trip to Como Park today at which time he went with them. Ansar then
brought his son back to his house. Ansar stated that his wife called him very
upset about him going to Como Park on this date when it was her day to be
with him. Ansar advised that Khan stated she was coming over immediately
to pick up their child. Ansar stated that this was sometime between 1700 and
1730 hours.

Ansar advised that Khan did arnve at approximately 1730 hours to
pick up their son. Khan rang the doorbell of the front door at which time
Ansar opened the screen door. Ansar advised that he observed a knife in
Khan’*s right hand and that she stabbed him in his left arm with it. Ansar
then immediately grabbed the knife and attempted to pull away at which
time the knife went up his arm and then back down again causing a
superficial laceration. I did observe the cut and puncture which had stopped
bleeding at this time. HealthEast did respond and looked at the cut on
Ansar’s upper left arm. ] also observed that the minor puncture and part of
the cut was above the sleeve of the short sleeved t-shirt that Ansar was
wearing. There was no damage or cut to the t-shirt. Ansar stated that he felt
that it was just a superficial cut and that he did not need any medical
attention. Ansar then signed a waiver provided by HealthEast stating that.
HealthEast then left the scene. Ansar continued with his statement to me.
e¢ ¢

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 6 of 16

Ansar advised that after Khan had cut hini, then she threw the knife
into the driver’s side window of her vehicle at which time he followed her to
the car to prevent her from leaving. Ansar stated he grabbed her around the
shoulder and arm area and escorted her back into the garage so she would
not leave. Ansar made the comment that it may have appeared that he was
dragging her, but he was only holding on to her. When asked if she had
fallen on the ground or had been injured, Ansar stated that she had not been,
nor did she fall. When asked if their four-year-old son had witnessed any of
this, Ansar stated his son walked out of the front door after Khan had
thrown the knife in the vehicle, but his son did see the blood on his arm and
became very hysterical and screaming. I questioned Ansar about the
accusation that his wife stated that he had stabbed himself. Ansar stated that
this was not true, but his fingerprints would be on the handle of the knife
because he had grabbed it when she stabbed him. When asked why he didn’t
keep a hold on the knife to take it away from her, Ansar stated that he was
not afraid of her because she is so small and that the only way she was able
to stab him was because it surprised him and he had not expected it.

(St. Ex. 2 at 3)

8. | When questioned by another police officer, Dr. Ansar admitted his statements to Officer
Dretzke were false. Officer Dretzke reported the following, after Dr. Ansar was
questioned further about his claim that Dr. Khan stabbed him:

Ansar then advised that earlier this date [i.e., earlier on June 30, 2006],
he had picked up a copy of the police report of an incident between him and
his wife which occurred on [June 20, 2006]. When Ansar read the report, he
stated he became very upset because there are accusations from his wife in
the report stating that he had made threats to harm or kill her and her family.
Ansar stated that he never made these threats. Ansar stated that Khan did
respond on this date [June 30, 2006] to pick up their son. When Khan
arrived at the residence, Ansar stated that he did take a knife out from the
residence and place it in his right pants pocket. He then walked his son out
to Khan’s vehicle where she was parked in the driveway. Ansar placed his

- son in the back seat at which time he then took the knife out of his pocket
and stabbed and cut himself in the left arm. Ansar then advised that he threw
the knife through the front driver’s window. Ansar did state that his son did
see him cut himself. Ansar was then placed under arrest for filing a false
police report.

(St. Ex. 2 at 4)
e¢  ¢€

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 7 of 16

9. Although Dr. Ansar did not deny stabbing himself, he gave inconsistent testimony about
his reasons for doing so, During cross-examination, Dr. Ansar was asked whether he
bought the knife “with the purpose to kind of set your wife up,” and he initially answered,
“No, I didn’t.” He explained that he had bought the knife as part of a kitchen set earlier
that day, with no plan or intention of setting up his wife. However, he gave a different
answer when pressed. He admitted he had bought only one knife and that it did not match
any of the other knives in the house. He admitted to putting the knife into his pocket and
that, when his wife “came to pick up my son, when I was putting him in the car seat, that’s
when I cut my arm.” When he was asked why he had put the knife in his pocket and then
cut himself with it, Dr. Ansar answered: “Because, I guess, I wanted to kind of set her up.”
(Tr. at 61-64)

Conviction and Sentencing for the June 30, 2005, Incident

10. Dr. Ansar admitted that, based on the events that took place at his home on June 30, 2005,
he was convicted of filing a false police report. (Tr. at 58) He said that, as part of a plea
agreement, the prosecutor agreed to stay the adjudication of the domestic assault charge,
and Dr. Ansar admitted to filing the false police report in June. Based on this agreement
and after receiving Dr. Ansar’s guilty plea to filing a false police report, the court imposed
a one-year term of probation and required Dr. Ansar to attend a four-month domestic
abuse program (which was administered on-line and which he says he has successfully
completed). In addition, court documents note that there will also be a pre-sentence

investigation report presented to the court after the report is completed in December 2006.
(Tr. at 74-75; Resp. Ex. B at 8)

11. During the administrative hearing, Dr. Ansar denied that he took the actions on June 30,
2005, as a means of gaining an edge in the custody dispute that was then pending in court.
However, given the evidence regarding the premeditation with which he carried out his
plan, the highly contested custody proceedings that were then pending, and the attendant
circumstances (including the fact that Dr. Ansar was angry at Dr. Khan for the claims she
made in the June 20, 2005, police report), this denial lacks credibility.

December 2004 Incident

12. Dr. Ansar acknowledged that the 2005 incident was not the first time something like this
happened. He explained that in December of 2004 he believed Dr. Khan had mistreated
their son and he went to the police and reported the mistreatment. He said Dr. Khan then
pleaded with Dr. Ansar to recant the charge because if he didn’t, she would be deported
(because her immigration file was pending and they were scheduled to meet with the
Department of Homeland Security shortly thereafter). Dr. Ansar said he went back to the
police in December to take the blame for making the false statement, so that Dr. Khan
would not be deported. According to Dr. Ansar, two days later Dr. Khan got her green
Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 8 of 16

card and told him she was filing for divorce, that she had just manipulated him in order to
get the green card. (Tr. at 68-69)

Psychological Profile and Testing

13,

14,

15.

16.

17,

Dr. Ansar testified that he is a “total tea-totaller” who has “never, ever used drugs or
alcohol,” and, according to the psychological evaluations presented to the Board, he “does
not present any of the risk factors for engaging in violent behavior.” (Tr. at 25)

In supporting his assertion that he presents no risk factors or other personality traits
warranting Board attention, Dr. Ansar presented the report of Joseph J. Plaud, Ph.D.,
BCBA, Executive Director of Applied Behavioral Consultants, Inc., of Whitinsville,
Massachusetts. Dr. Plaud is a licensed clinical psychologist and health service provider,
and a board certified behavior analyst. Dr. Ansar said he commissioned this evaluation in
August, 2005, because he was looking for a psychologist who could “administer [an]
intense psychological battery of tests to me.” Dr. Plaud’s report is based on a clinical
interview of Dr. Ansar, a record review using available records (including an investigation
of fifth degree domestic assault and child neglect), a psychometric inventory
administration consisting of five psychometric instruments, a psychosexual inventory
administration consisting of three psy chosexual instruments, and the Abel Assessment for
Sexual Interest. (Resp. Ex. A at 2-3)

Dr. Ansar emphasized certain findings presented by Dr. Plaud. According to Dr. Plaud,
and based on the results of the Psychopathic Checklist-Revised, Dr. Ansar’s antisocial
scores “fall in the bottom third of this scale, indicating that he does not share the traits of

“antisocial personalities to any significant degree and the likelihood of present criminal

behavior is not significant when compared to others in incarcerated or forensic settings.”
(Tr. at 27)

Pointing to further findings in Dr. Plaud’s report, Dr. Ansar observed that it includes a
“very important finding” which states that “[flew, if any, indicators of repeated lying,
deceit, or chronic inability to conform to society are present. A moral or ethical blunting is
not evident. Dr, Ansar is capable of affection, sympathy, and remorse.” Dr, Ansar
“stresses the point that Respondent is capable of remorse, is morally responsible, and is an
ethical person and does not have significant antisocial or criminal behavior.” The report
also concludes that Dr. Ansar “has above average judgment abilities,” which means,
according to Dr. Ansar, that his “thinking abilities are intact,” rendering him “more than
capable of practicing the art of medicine in all of the states he’s licensed in.” (Tr. at 25-29)

According to Dr. Ansar, results from the Multiphasic Sex Inventory, which is also a part
of Dr. Plaud’s report, include the finding that “[t]he level of Dr. Ansar’s emotional
Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.
Page 9 of 16

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

maturity indicates that he’s generally capable of accepting responsibility for his actions.
No evidence of any conduct, disorder pattern, or sociopathic behaviors is noted.”
According to Dr. Ansar, this finding is “very important, because a person who can accept
responsibility for his actions does know that his actions are morally wrong and that does
not constitute moral turpitude.” (Tr. at 25-26) |

Dr. Ansar acknowledged that the personality inventories and assessments in Dr, Plaud’s
report were limited 10 responses he gave, and specifically that the report is not based on
any interviews with other family members. (Tr. at 59)

In addition to the psychological inventories he commissioned and which are described
above, Dr. Ansar also participated in evaluations in the course of the court’s child custody
determination, shown as Respondent’s Exhibit B. Dr. Ansar drew the Board’s attention to
the findings that included results from the Personality Assessment Inventory, the
Califomia Psychological Inventory, the State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory 2, the
Problem Experiences Checklist, and the Problem Behavior Inventory. Dr. Ansar notes
that the evaluator found Dr. Ansar “appeared candid . . . with no attempts to present
himself differently than actually the case.” The evaluator found Dr. Ansar to be “socially
competent and comfortable,” and “supportive of rules and conventions,” with “no
indications of impulse control, anger control, or behavior problems.” (Tr. at 30-32)

According to Dr. Ansar, the results of the child custody evaluation and the evaluations he
himself commissioned, support his contention that “he’s been adequately tested and his
abstract thinking is intact. His judgment is intact. And he feels that he’s morally conscious
and he should not now be prosecuted if he’s upholding the morals.” (Tr. at 33) As will be
discussed below, this claim is in part contradicted, however, by findings expressed by
Scott Terhune, Ph.D., the principle author of the report shown as Respondent’s Exhibit B.

According to Dr. Ansar, Dr. Terhune’s report was prepared for use in the child custody
proceeding. Dr. Terhune’s report appears to have been based on interviews and
observations of Dr. Khan, Dr, Ansar, their child, the director of their child’s daycare
center, a close friend and babysitter, and members of their immediate family, all taken
between December 2005 and March 2006. It also includes the results of seven
psychological assessment instruments, (Resp. Ex. B, at 1-2)

The record does not include a listing of Dr. Terhune’s professional credentials. It appears,
however, that the Dakota County court approved the report for use in the couple’s child
custody dispute; and it further appears that Dr. Ansar disagreed with some of the findings,
after noting that he did not select Dr. Terhune — his wife did. (Tr. at 66)

In his report, Dr. Terhune notes that prior to submitting to the battery of tests administered
by Dr. Terhune, Dr, Ansar self-commissioned the tests administered by Dr. Plaud in
Massachusetts. Dr. Terhune also observed that Dr. Plaud may not have had much
es ¢@

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.

information about the events that took place on June 30, 2005, and that this is significant
in that it calls into question the weight that should be given to Dr, Plaud’s report:
Dr. Ansar completed a psychological evaluation in Massachusetts with

Dr. Plaud. It is clear that the evaluating psychologist had access to at least
some records related to the 6.30.05 incident although the evaluation did not
contain a synthesis or conceptualization of the results of the evaluation
telative to the questions raised by that incident. After an initial description of
the event, the incident had no further exploration in the report. The evaluation
occurred after the incident secondary to the custody dispute. Dr. Plaud’s
report noted “Dr. Ansar denies that he assaulted his estranged wife or made a
false report to the police department.” This examiner did not see the
foundation for an opinion about parenting ability in the report. This evaluation
cannot be assigned much weight towards concerns about specific behavior,
although some of the test responses are consistent with Dr. Ansar’s responses
to the present evaluation.” (Resp. Ex. B at 8, quoting from Dr. Plaud’s report,
Resp. Ex. A at 3)

24. Although he was the proponent of Dr. Terhune’s report and offered it to the Board as an
exhibit in this hearing, Dr. Ansar disputed Dr. Terhune’s conclusion, saying Dr. Terhune
was chosen by his ex-wife, and adding that in presenting this report to the Board, he is
“relying on the integrity of the psychological assessments, Assessments, not the entire
report.” (Tr. at 66)

25. There are other significant findings contained in Dr. Terhune’s report that are relevant,
beyond those brought forward by Dr. Ansar. Dr. Terhune in his summary writes:

Dr. Ansar comes to this evaluation with a challenge to his credibility. He
reported to police (12.04) that Dr. Khan struck [their son], then recanted, and
now stated that the incident occurred but he recanted under pressure from Dr.
Khan. He harmed himself in front of Dr. Khan and [their son] (6.30.05) then
told police that Dr. Khan had done the injury before recanting and telling
police within several minutes of the initial false report that he had done it. He
completed a psychological evaluation (8.6.05) and denied to the evaluator he

’ had harmed himself.

This incident of 6.30.05 was dangerous and fear provoking for Dr. Khan
and [their son]. It calls into question Dr. Ansar’s judgment, impulse control,
emotional control, and willingness to engage [his son] in his conflict with Dr.
Khan. Dr. Ansar admits to his behavior in that incident and did so on that date
even though he initially informed police that Dr. Khan had stabbed him. His
attribution for his behavior as he reported it during this evaluation was that he
was very emotionally distressed by the accusations Dr. Khan had made about
¢ @¢

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.

__him. He denied a plan, but reported purchas[ing] the knife in a store with his
~ son earlier that day. There has been no information from this evaluation to
indicate that Dr. Ansar has discussed his behavior in this incident and
attempted to understand his actions in a way to minimize any future risk that
may be suggested by such behavior.

It is this evaluator’s opinion that there have been insufficient attempts to
address the clear questions raised by Dr. Ansar’s behavior. While Dr. Ansar
described his behavior on 6.30.05 as a poor choice secondary to stress, it is
unsatisfactory to dismiss his conduct in this way. Such dismissal requires
neither the underlying reasons for such risky behavior nor the impact on
others, including [his son], to be satisfactorily explored in an effort toward
prevention.

(Resp. Ex. B at 8)

Action by Other State Medical Licensing Boards

26.

27.

In addition to presenting the Board with the records showing these psychological test
results, Dr. Ansar sought to introduce records from boards regulating the practice of
medicine in Illinois, Arizona, Washington, Iowa, and Wisconsin, indicating the outcome
of administrative actions in those states. The State’s objection to the admission of these
documents was sustained, but the record nevertheless includes Dr. Ansar’s swom
testimony that in each case, the states found no cause to discipline Dr. Ansar based on the
same criminal misdemeanor charges that are now before the Ohio State Medical Board.
(Tr. at 33-51)

Dr. Ansar also presented substantial evidence demonstrating his good character and
reputation in the relevant medical and professional communities. Included is a letter from
the clinical director of the Department of Veterans Affairs, who described Dr. Ansar as
“an asset to the Maplewood VA Outpatient Clinic” who “incorporates family values,
ethnicity into each veteran’s care [and] works well and closely with families, ancillary
services, and is greatly respected by co-workers and colleagues.” There is also a character
reference letier from the director of the lab where Dr. Ansar works, in which he is
described as “a team player and makes us all feel we are an important member of the
team.” In addition to a Post Commander’s Distinguished Service Certificate awarded to
Dr. Ansar in recognition of his service to the AMVETS Post in December 2003, there is a
letter from United States Senator Mark Dayton commending Dr. Ansar for his “caring
attitude, your concern for patients, and your willingness to serve.” (Tr. at 52-55; Resp. Ex.

I,K, K1).

Summary of Evidence Presented in Mitigation of the Offense
Report and Recommendation

In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.

28. During the hearing, Dr. Ansar presented testimony in which he brought out several factors
which he believes should be taken as mitigating the charge against him. These include:

¢ His claim that he has been licensed in other state jurisdictions and “‘no action has been
taken against my licenses in those state medical boards”;

¢ His evidence showing good character, {rom testimonials supplied by individuals with
whom he works at the Department of Veterans Affairs;

¢ His claim that he has been working at the Minneapolis V.A. Medical Center for three
years and seven months, “without any medical malpractice suites being filed against me
[and] without any patient complaints”;

e His claim that the charge against him does not constitute a misdemeanor “involving
moral turpitude”;

* His claim that his “judgment is completely intact ... and I am not prone for criminal
behavior or for morally despicable behavior”;

His claim that he has‘no criminal history;

His claim that he “[does] not have any cognitive distortions,” as demonstrated by test
results described in a report by Dr. Joseph Plaud, shown on page 3 of Respondent’s
Exhibit A;

¢ His claim that in another test report, based on the Millon Clinical Multi-Axial Inventory
Il], he “did not have a significant antisocial score measured through this objective
protocol”; ‘

e His claim that in another test report, based on the Personality Assessment Inventory, the
author writes that “[t]here are no indications of significant psychopathology”;

e His assertion that in light of these and other test results, “this should suffice as far as
mental health issues are concermed or issues of moral turpitude or morality are
concemed, also, because these are intensive clinical tests proven and administered by a
licensed psychologist.” (Tr. at 21-24)

ANALYSIS

The record establishes without contradiction that Dr, Ansar was convicted of violating
Minn. Stat. § 609.505 (2005) (falsely reporting crime). This offense is established whenever a
person “informs a law enforcement officer that a crime has been committed or otherwise
provides information to an on-duty peace officer, knowing that the person is a peace officer,
regarding the conduct of others, knowing that it is false and intending that the officer shall act in
reliance upon it.” Jd.

The record also establishes that, under the circumstances, the offense was a crime
involving moral turpitude. Dr. Ansar is correct when he points to Ohio case law in support of his
argument that “moral turpitude” is “characterized by ‘baseness, vileness, or the depravity in
private and social duties which man owes to his fellow man, or to society in general,” (Tr. at 17)
Dr, Ansar’s conduct meets this definition. It is undisputed that he was engaged in a bitter custody
dispute, that he had reacted angrily when he leamed his wife reported his mistreatment of their
son, that with premeditation he brought his son with him while he purchased a knife, confronted
Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.

his wife with the knife, and then stabbed himself in front of his son, with the intention of filing a
police report falsely accusing his wife of the assault so as to improve his chances of gaining
custody of their son in the pending domestic relations action.

The record establishes that Dr. Ansar deliberately lied to police as a means of punishing
his wife and in an attempt to gain the upper hand in the custody dispute, and willfully placed his
four-year-old son in the middle of a base and vile course of conduct, breaching the duty he owed
to his family and to the community. He knew his statements were false and expected they would
be relied upon by the police, as was the case, up to the moment he recanted.

_ Dr. Ansar is mistaken when he suggests the offense as committed does not fall within the
definition of moral turpitude. While not all misdemeanors fall within that definition, there are
some common threads that characterize such crimes. One thread is the presence of an act of false
pretenses or fraud, particularly when it is perpetrated on the government. “Without exception,
federal and state courts have held that a crime in which fraud is an ingredient involves moral
turpitude.” Certainly false pretenses are involved in the misdemeanor charged here, where Dr. .
Ansar knew he was falsely making a claim that he intended the police to rely upon, knowing that
if they did rely upon the claims his wife would be charged with a crime. In another case
involving false statements, where a druggist presented a forged prescription for narcotics, the
court held this was a crime involving moral turpitude, because it constitutes “an impairment of
the administration of governmental functions even though there be no pecuniary loss to the
Government.” Calling the police to deliberately misrepresent a stabbing, when the caller is the
person who did the stabbing and is using the police as leverage in a child custody battle,
constitutes an “impairment of the administration of governmental functions” so as to render the
crime one of moral turpitude.

The parties in their respective closing statements correctly noted the decision of the
Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals decision in Davidson v. Ohio State Medical Board,’ in which the
court held that “the act of ‘obstructing official business,’ in violation of a statutory law, can be
considered to be an act or behavior that violates moral sentiment or accepted moral standards of
the community, and. . . would appear to be a morally culpable quality of fraudulent activity.“
Similarly, as the State noted, the Ohio Supreme Court has expressed the view that the deliberate
falsification of documents under any circumstances “is immediately morally suspect.”° In that
case, an attorney pled no contest to a misdemeanor charge of falsifying accounting records he
filed in connection with two private adoptions. Notwithstanding substantial evidence of the
atlomey’s good character, the Ohio Supreme Court nevertheless found such falsification to
constitute moral turpitude and imposed an indefinite suspension.°

1 Jordan v. DeGeorge, 341 U.S. 223, 227 (1951). :
? United States ex rel. Abbenante v. Butterfield, 112 F. Supp. 324, 326 (D.C. Mich. 1953).
? 1998 WL 226426 (10% Ohio App. Dist. 1998).
“Id. at *9,
: Office of Disciplinary Counsel v. Bell, 472 N.E.2d 1069, 1071 (Ohio 1984).
Id.

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.


On the other hand, Dr. Ansar’s reference to the decision i in Holycross v. State Board of
Emergency Medical Services’ is unavailing. In Holycross, the licensee had been convicted of
trespass, attempted harassment by telecommunications, and harassment by telephone, after he
sent an email to the fifteen-year-old daughter of a co-worker, who sought to discourage the
relationship. In that case, the licensee did not appear at the administrative hearing and the court
of appeals drew its conclusions entirely from the limited facts that were before it, facts which are
wholly dissimilar to the fraudulent conduct attributed to Dr. Ansar. In that case, the licensee
surreptitiously entered the bedroom of the co-worker’s daughter and engaged in consensual
sexual conduct. There the court found the circumstances did not constitute moral turpitude
because the relationship between the licensee and the young woman was consensual. As such,

the court’s holding in Holycross lends no support to Dr. Ansar’s claims.

Dr. Ansar also notes that other state medical boards have elected not to impose
disciplinary sanctions against him based on this criminal conduct. The evidence suggests that Dr.
Ansar self-reported the misdemeanor in several jurisdictions, none of which have elected to take
disciplinary action against him. Each state, however, makes its own determination about the
relative gravity that should be attributed to a given course of criminal behavior. Had the events
leading to the conviction occurred in Ohio, there is little doubt that the acknowledged facts
would support disciplinary action, at a level much more profound than a reprimand.

Dr. Ansar is correct, of course, when he complains that any discipline imposed by the
Ohio Board would start a “chain reaction” in other states. Indeed, one of the inherent
consequences of being licensed in multiple jurisdictions is the fact that instead of having one set
of peers, the licensee invites review by multiple sets of peers. Accordingly, the nsk of board
action increases with every state a licensee is authorized to practice in. That does not, however,
militate against imposing a substantive disciplinary sanction in Ohio. Rather, it serves as a
caution to those who seek permission to practice in a number of jurisdictions, that their action
must be consistent with the norms practiced in each of those jurisdictions. Having failed to abide
by those norms in Ohio, Dr. Ansar properly may be punished here, notwithstanding contrary
results in other jurisdictions.

Dr. Ansar’s failure to conform to professional standards in Ohio should result in a
substantial and determinate suspension. There is no need for further evaluations, nor would there
be a benefit to a probationary period. Dr. Ansar has no ties to Ohio other than his license, and
there is no reason to believe he needs to be monitored. Board evaluation and monitoring are both
resource-intensive: they take Board and staff time, offer no promise of increasing public trust in
Dr. Ansar’s abilities, and are expensive, both for the State and the licensee. In this case, the
costs of evaluation and monitoring simply outweigh the benefits that are likely to be attained
through those sanctions. The record here further reflects that Dr. Ansar has received extensive
psychological evaluation both at his own commission and at the court’s direction. That record

7 873 N.E.2d 423 (2d Dist. Ohio App. 2005).
Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M.D.

provides sufficient information for this Board to impose a disciplinary suspension without the
need for more tests or supervision,

There is, therefore, no basis for the Board to impose either further evaluation or a
probationary period. The Board should, however, deprive Dr. Ansar of the authority to practice
medicine and surgery in Ohio for a fixed period of time, as both a punitive measure and as an
exemplary measure, preempting any public impression thal the Board is indifferent to this kind
of criminal behavior. While the applicable statute authorizes a number of lesser and greater
sanctions (including permanent license revocation), the circumstances here call for a one-year
suspension, without further conditions for reinstatement, and without a period of probation
following the suspension.

FINDINGS OF FACT

1. The Respondent, Azber Azher Ansar, M.D., is licensed to practice medicine and surgery in
Ohio under Certificate Number 35.078745.

2. In proceedings conducted in the First Judicial District Court of Dakota County, Minnesota,
on December 12, 2005, the Respondent was convicted upon a plea of guilty to a

misdemeanor charge of falsely reporting a crime, in violation of Minnesota Statute Section
609.505.

3. The circumstances attendant to the conviction include: (1) the Respondent was in a bitter
custody dispute with his wife; (2) he learned his wife had filed a report accusing him of
mistreating their son; (3) upon learning about this report he became angry and sought to
retaliate against his wife; (4) he purchased a knife shortly before confronting his wife, and
then in her presence and in the presence of their four-year-old son he stabbed himself with
the knife; (5) he then falsely reported to the police that his wife had stabbed him; (6) he did
So intending that she would be unjustly arrested and charged with a crime; and (7) he did so
hoping to use the police and their actions as a means to obtain an advantage in the pending
child custody and divorce proceedings.

4. When it received notice of Dr. Ansar’s conviction, the Board set forth its allegations
against the Respondent in a notice of opportunity for hearing dated August 9, 2006. Ina
written response received by the Board on September 8, 2006, the Respondent invoked his
right to have an administrative review of the charge. In a letter dated September 8, 2006 the
Board acknowledged its receipt of the Respondent’s request for a hearing. The Board then
set the matter for a hearing to commence on September 22, 2006, continued the hearing,
appointed an administrative hearing examiner, and provided the parties with an opportunity
to be heard on the charge in an evidentiary hearing conducted on October 30, 2006.
¢ 8 8=F

Report and Recommendation
In the Matter of Azber A. Ansar, M. D.

"CONCLUSION OF LAW

Because he holds a certificate to practice medicine and surgery in Ohio, the Respondent,
Azber A. Ansar, M.D., is subject to the jurisdiction of the State Medical Board of Ohio in
actions taken pursuant to R.C, Chapters 119 and 4731.

Upon receiving sufficient evidence to believe the Respondent violated a provision of R.C.
Chapter 4731, the Board was authorized to take action with respect to the Respondent’s
certificate. The Respondent timely requested an evidentiary hearing before the Board took
any final action based upon the Board’s charge. Upon its receipt of the Respondent’s
request for a hearing, the Board set the matter for hearing in the manner provided for by the
Administrative Procedure Act, and provided the Respondent with an opportunity to be
heard, alli in the manner T provided for by state and federal statutory and constitutional law.

The Board may take disciplinary action against a person holding a certificate to practice
medicine and surgery in Ohio upon sufficient proof that the person has been convicted of a

“misdemeanor involving moral turpitude” as that clause is used in R.C. 4731.22(B)(13)
(Anderson 2006).

The Respondent’s conviction of the misdemeanor offense of filing a false police report, '
under the circumstances described in Finding of Fact No. 3 above, is a crime involving
moral turpitude, as that term is used in R.C. 4731.22(B)(13).

Upon sufficient proof that the Respondent has violated any provision of R.C. 4731.22(B),
as has been demonstrated in the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions of law, the
Board, by an affirmative vote of not fewer than six of its members, shall to the extent
permitted by law limit, revoke or suspend an individual’s certificate to practice, refuse to
register an individual, refuse to reinstate a certificate, or reprimand or place on probation.
the holder of a certificate, all pursuant to R:C. 4731.22(B).

. PROPOSED ORDER
It is hereby ORDERED that:

SUSPENSION OF CERTIFICATE: The certificate of Azber Azher Ansar, M.D., to

practice medicine and surgery in the State of Ohio shall be SUSPENDED for a period of
one year.

This Order shall become effective immediately upon the mailing of “se of approval

by the Board. > L.
C2 ZA ¢

Christopher B. McNeil, Esq.
Hearing Examiner

EXHIBIT

oc  @

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA )\EDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIR Shereby certify that this document is a true
STATE OF CALIFORNIA and correct copy of/the origin4l on file in this

fC dtp yl Loe.

pray Cuatonian of Karol
. Title Ay LTT B00"
In the Matter of the Accusation Against: Date
AZBER AZHER ANSAR, M.D. Case No. 16-2007-181365

Physician and Surgeon’s Certificate No. OAH No. N2007050901
A84893 , ;

Respondent.

DECISION AFTER NONADOPTION

Administrative Law Judge Ruth S. Astle, State of California, Office of Administrative
Hearings, heard this matter in Oakland, California, on August 2, 2007. Jane Zack Simon,
Deputy Attorney General, represented complainant. Respondent was present and represented
himself.

Submission of the matter was deferred to August 13, 2007 for receipt of further
evidence concerning the status of respondent’s medical license in Ohio and the matter was
submitted on that date. On August 17, 2007, the Administrative Law Judge issued her
Proposed Decision in this matter.

On November 7, 2007, the Medical Board of California (Board) issued an Order of
Non-Adoption of the Proposed Decision. On December 24, 2007, the Board issued a Notice
of Hearing for Oral Argument, which set January 31, 2008, as the date for oral argument.

Having received oral and written argument on this matter, and the time for filing
written and oral argument having expired, and having reviewed the entire record, including
the transcripts; the Board hereby makes and enters its decision after nonadoption as follows:

ORDER

The Medical Board of California hereby adopts the attached Proposed Decision of the
Administrative Law Judge dated August 17, 2007 as its decision in this matter.
@ oo @

This decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on March 21, 2008

ITIS SO ORDERED THIS February 20, 2008 .

4, A batt,

Cesar A. Aristeiguieta, M.D., F.A.C.E.P.
Chair

Panel A

Medical Board of California
BEFORE THE
DIVISION OF MEDICAL QUALITY
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:
AZBER AZHER ANSAR, M.D., Case No. 16-2007-181365

Physician and Surgeon’ s Certificate No. OAH No. N2007050901
—A84893

Respondent.

PROPOSED DECISION

Administrative Law Judge Ruth S. Astle, State of California, Office of Administrative
Hearings, heard this matter in Oakland, California, on August 2, 2007.

Jane Zack Simon, Deputy Attorney General, represented complainant.
Respondent was present and represented himself.

Submission of the matter was deferred to August 13, 2007 for receipt of further
evidence concerning the status of respondent’s medical license in Ohio. Respondent’s
license in Ohio expired and he is required to submit an application for renewal. Ohio has not
acted on that renewal. The matter was submitted on August 13, 2007.

FACTUAL FINDINGS

i. David T. Thornton made the accusation in his official capacity as the
Executive Director of the Medical Board of California (Board).

2. On October 10, 2003, Physician and Surgeon’s Certificate No. A84893 was
issued by the Board to Azber Azher Ansar, M.D. (respondent). Respondent’s certificate has
an expiration date of October 31, 2007, and was suspended on May 9, 2007, pursuant to
Business and Professions Code section 2310, subdivision (a) (suspension/revocation in
another jurisdiction).

3. On January 10, 2007, the State Medical Board of Ohio issued an Entry of
Order, suspending respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Ohio for a period
& , é
' *

of six months. The Ohio Board made factual findings that on December 12, 2005,
respondent was convicted of a misdemeanor charge of falsely reporting a crime in
Minnesota.’ The facts and circumstances underlying the criminal conviction were that
respondent was in a bitter custody and divorce dispute with his estranged wife. In an effort
to retaliate against her for filing a report accusing him of mistreating their four-year-old
child, respondent purchased a knife, confronted his wife, stabbed himself with the knife (in
the presence of the child) and then falsely reported to the police that his wife had stabbed
him. Respondent took this action with the intention that his wife would be arrested and
charged with a crime, and to use this as a means to obtain an advantage in a pending child
custody and divorce proceeding.

Respondent testified that he knew he had done something wrong and within five
minutes of making the false report to the police, he recanted.

4. Respondent does not believe that his conviction bears a substantial relationship
to the duties, qualification and functions of a physician and surgeon. However, the
conviction involves dishonesty and is a crime involving moral turpitude. Honesty is an

important duty of a physician and surgeon. This conviction reflects extremely poor judgment
and irrational behavior.

5. Respondent presented a character letter from a registered nurse that works at
Mapplewood Community Based Outpatient Clinic for the Department of Veterans Affairs.
She has worked with respondent for four years. She states that respondent is well respected

in the community and has strong relationships with patients and staff. She does not mention
respondent’s conviction.

6. Respondent presented a psychological evaluation dated August 20, 2005 to
September 20, 2005. This evaluation predates respondent’s conviction, but postdates the
incident, which occurred June 30, 2005. This evaluation was given little weight by the Ohio
Medical Board as one-sided and self-serving. Respondent did not present a current
psychological evaluation.

7. Respondent is licensed in 16 states. He is employed at a V.A. hospital in
Minnesota. He did not present any character evidence from his employer or other physicians
with whom he works.

8. Complainant recommends revocation stayed for five years upon terms and
conditions that include a full psychological evaluation as a condition precedent to practice
and psychological treatment as.recommended by the evaluation.

' The conviction for committing this crime, regardless of the action taken by another state,
constitutes grounds for disciplinary action in California.
1.

a
. le

LEGAL CONCLUSIONS

By reason of the matters set forth in Finding 3, cause for disciplinary action

exists pursuant to Business and Professions Code sections 2305 and 141, subdivision (a)
(unprofessional conduct based on discipline in another jurisdiction).

2.

The matters set forth in Findings 4 through 8 have been considered in making

the following order.

ORDER

Certificate No. A84893 issued to respondent Azber Azher Ansar, M.D. is revoked.
However, revocation stayed and respondent is placed on probation for five years upon the
following terms and conditions:

1,

Actual Suspension - As part of probation, respondent is suspended from the
practice of medicine for 90 days beginning the sixteenth (16th) day after the
effective date of this decision.

Psychiatric Evaluation - Within 30 calendar days of the effective date of this
Decision, and on whatever periodic basis thereafter may be required by the
Division or its designee, respondent shall undergo and complete a psychiatric
evaluation (and psychological testing, if deemed necessary) by a Division-
appointed board certified psychiatrist, who shall consider any information
provided by the Division or designee and any other information the
psychiatrist deems relevant, and shall furnish a written evaluation report to the
Division or its designee. Psychiatric evaluations conducted prior to the
effective date of the Decision. shall not be accepted towards the fulfillment of
this requirement. Respondent shall pay the cost of all psychiatric evaluations
and psychological testing.

Respondent shall comply with all restrictions or conditions recommended by
the evaluating psychiatrist within 15 calendar days after being notified by the
Division or its designee. Failure to undergo and complete a psychiatric
evaluation and psychological testing, or comply with the required additional
conditions or restrictions, is a violation of probation.

Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine until notified by the
Division or its designee that respondent is mentally fit to practice medicine
safely. The period of time that respondent is not practicing medicine shall not
be counted toward completion of the term of probation.

Psychotherapy - Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision,
respondent shall submit to the Division or its designee for prior approval the
name and qualifications of a board certified psychiatrist or a licensed
psychologist who has a doctoral degree in psychology and at least five years of
postgraduate experience in the diagnosis and treatment of emotional and
mental disorders. Upon approval, respondent shall undergo and continue
psychotherapy treatment, including any modifications to the frequency of
psychotherapy, until the Division or its designee deems that no further
psychotherapy is necessary.

The psychotherapist shall consider any information provided by the Division
or its designee and any other information the psychotherapist deems relevant
and shall furnish a written evaluation report to the Division or its designee.
Respondent shall cooperate in providing the psychotherapist any information
and documents that the psychotherapist may deem pertinent. Respondent shall
have the treating psychotherapist submit quarterly status reports to the
Division or its designee. The Division or its designee may require respondent
to undergo psychiatric evaluations by a Division-appointed board certified
psychiatrist.

If, prior to the completion of probation, respondent is found to be mentally
unfit to resume the practice of medicine without restrictions, the Division shall
retain continuing jurisdiction over respondent’s license and the period of
probation shall be extended until the Division determines that respondent is
mentally fit to resume the practice of medicine without restrictions.
Respondent shall pay the cost of all psychotherapy and psychiatric
evaluations.

Failure to undergo and continue psychotherapy treatment, or comply with any
required modification in the frequency of psychotherapy, is a violation of
probation.

Notification - Prior to engaging in the practice of medicine the respondent
shall provide a true copy of the Decision(s) and Accusation(s) to the Chief of
Staff or the Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or
membership are extended to respondent, at any other facility where respondent
engages in the practice of medicine, including all physician and locum tenens
registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief Executive Officer at every
insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to respondent.
Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Division or its designee
within 15 calendar days.

This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or
insurance carrier.

Supervision of Physician Assistants - During probation, respondent is
prohibited from supervising physician assistants.
10.

eo @

Obey All Laws - Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local laws, all
rules governing the practice of medicine in California and remain in full
compliance with any-court ordered criminal probation, payments, and other
orders.

Quarterly Declarations - Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations under
penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Division, stating whether there
has been compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall
submit quarterly declarations not later than 10 calendar days after the end of
the preceding quarter.

Probation Unit Compliance - Respondent shall comply with the Division’s
probation unit. Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Division informed of
respondent’s business and residence addresses. Changes of such addresses
shall be immediately communicated in writing to the Division or its designee.
Under no circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record,
except as allowed by Business and Professions Code section 2021(b).
Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in respondent’s place
of residence. Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California
physician’s and surgeon’s license.

Respondent shall immediately inform the Division or its designee, in writing,
of travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts, or is

contemplated to last, more than thirty (30) calendar days.

Interview with the Division or its Designee - Respondent shall be available in
person for interviews either at respondent’s place of business or at the
probation unit office, with the Division or its designee upon request at various
intervals and either with or without prior notice throughout the term of
probation.

Residing or Practicing Out-of-State - In the event respondent should leave the
State of California to reside or to practice respondent shall notify the Division
or its designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and
return. Non-practice is defined as any period of time exceeding thirty calendar
days in which respondent is not engaging in any activities defined in sections
2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions Code.

All time spent in an intensive training program outside the State of California
which has been approved by the Division or its designee shall be considered as
time spent in the practice of medicine within the State. A Board-ordered
suspension of practice shall not be considered as a period of non-practice.
Periods of temporary or permanent residence or practice outside California
will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term. Periods of temporary
11.

®@ . @
a
. \

or permanent residence or practice outside California will relieve respondent
of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions
with the exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions of
probation: Obey All Laws; Probation Unit Compliance; and Cost Recovery.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically cancelled if respondent’s periods
of temporary or permanent residence or practice outside California totals two
years. However, respondent’s license shall not be cancelled as long as
respondent is residing and practicing medicine in another state of the United
States and is on active probation with the medical licensing authority of that
state, in which case the two year period shall begin on the date probation is
completed or terminated in that state.

Any respondent disciplined under B&P Code sections 141 subdivision (a) or
2305 (another state discipline) may petition for modification or termination of
penalty: 1) if the other state’s discipline terms are modified, terminated or
reduced; and 2) if at least one year has elapsed from the effective date of the
California discipline. :

Failure to Practice Medicine - California Resident - In the event respondent
resides in the State of California and for any reason respondent stops
practicing medicine in California, respondent shall notify the Division or its
designee in writing within 30 calendar days prior to the dates of non-practice
and return to practice. Any period of non- practice within California, as
defined in this condition, will not apply to the reduction of the probationary
term and does not relieve respondent of the responsibility to comply with the
terms and conditions of probation. Non-practice is defined as any period of
time exceeding thirty calendar days in which respondent is not engaging in any
activities defined in sections 2051 and 2052 of the Business and Professions -
Code. ,

All time spent in an intensive training program which has been approved by
the Division or its designee shall be considered time spent in the practice of
medicine. For purposes of this condition, non-practice due to a Board-ordered
suspension or in compliance with any other condition of probation, shall not

_be considered a period of non-practice.

Respondent’s license shall be automatically cancelled if respondent resides in
California and for a total of two years, fails to engage in California in any of
the activities described in Business and Professions Code sections 2051 and
2052.
12.

13.

14.

15.

DATED:

@ a ¢

Completion of Probation - Respondent shall comply with all financial
obligations (e.g. probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the -
completion of probation. Upon completion successful of probation,
respondent’s certificate shall be fully restored.

Violation of Probation - Failure to fully comply with any term or condition of
probation is a violation of probation. If respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Division, after giving respondent notice and the opportunity to be
heard, may revoke probation and carry out the disciplinary order that was
stayed. If an Accusation or Petition to Revoke Probation, or an Interim
Suspension Order is filed against respondent during probation, the Division
shall have continuing jurisdiction until] the matter is final, and the period of
probation shall be extended until the matter is final.

License Surrender - Following the effective date of this Decision, if
respondent ceases practicing due to retirement, health reasons or is otherwise
unable to satisfy the terms and conditions of probation, respondent may
request the voluntary surrender of respondent’s license. The Division reserves
the right to evaluate respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion whether
or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate and
reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender,
respondent shall within 15 calendar days deliver respondent’s wallet and' wall
certificate to the Division or its designee and respondent shall no longer
practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject to the terms and
conditions of probation and the surrender of respondent’s license shall be
deemed disciplinary action.

If respondent re-applies for a medical license, the application shall be treated
as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

Probation Monitoring Costs - Respondent shall pay the costs associated with
probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the
Division, which may be adjusted on an annual basis. Such costs shall be
payable to the Medical Board of California and delivered to the Division or its
designee no later than January 31 of each calendar year. Failure to pay costs
within 30 calendar days of the due date is a violation of probation.

glia /o7

RUTH S. ASTLE
Administrative Law Judge
Office of Administrative Hearings




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that on
the 16 day of September 2008, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF PREHEARING
& HEARING, ORIGINAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT, along with a copy of the appointment

letter by mailing via USPS certified return receipt to the following:

Azber Azher Ansar, M.D.
P.O. Box 111097
St. Paul, MN 55111-1097

Dated this 16" day of September 2008.

. DDe hn
Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

