

For Publie

Before the Board of Medical Examiners

of the State of Nevada
In The Matter of The Complaint ) Case No. 08-28519-1
) * — — ee
Complaint Against ) FILED _ 7 Alay Deas
ADEKUNDLE AJAYI, M.D., ) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Respondent. )
_)

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of Nevada,

composed of Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., Chairman, and S. Daniel McBride, M.D., Member, by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, having
a reasonable basis to believe that Adekunle Ajayi, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent", has
violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative
Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, and at
all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Patient A, a forty-five-year-old female, whose true identity is not disclosed to protect her
privacy, but whose identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation served on Respondent along with a
copy of this Complaint.

3. On May 7, 2005, Patient A presented to Montevista Hospital in Las Vegas after being
placed on a seventy-two-hour-hold for psychotic behavior consistent with a severe manic state. Patient
A had a history of bipolar disorder and was paranoid and irritable at the time of her admission.
Additionally, Patient A had threatened to commit suicide. Patient A indicated to hospital personnel that
her psychiatrist was treating her with 900mg of lithium and 300mg of Seroquel daily. Patient A was

seen by Respondent shortly after her admission and Respondent diagnosed her with bipolar type one


2 UA AK BDH eT FSG Be DA AREBARHR AS

disorder and manic episode with psychosis. Additionally, Respondent ordered Patient A’s lithium level,
to confirm her compliance with her medications. The following day, Patient A’s lithium level was
reported as 1.0, with a therapeutic range being 0.6 to 1.3. Thereafter, Respondent ordered Patient A’s
lithium dose to be increased to 1,800mg a day and her Seroquel dose to 600mg a day.

4, On May 9, 10, 11, 12, 2005, Patient A continued to exhibit manic, agitated, irritable
conduct and expressed various paranoid delusions, and as a result, Respondent ordered Patient A’s
Seroquel dose to be increased to 800mg daily and that Patient A’s increased lithium level treatment was
to continue as previous.

5. On May 13, 2005, Patient A refused a blood draw and that she had to be medicated with
Hadol, Benadryl] and Ativan. The patient also refused a blood draw on May 14", and remained manic,
irritable and paranoid according to Dr. Ajayi.

6. On May 16, 2005, Patient A was observed to be unsteady on her feet, as a result, the
patient’s BUN, creatinine, lithium and Depakote levels were tested. The patient’s lithium level was
found to be at 2.9, well above 0.6 to 1.3, which is considered to be the therapeutic range. Thereafter,
Respondent ordered Patient A’s lithium administration ceased and that Patient A’s lithium level be
retested the following day.

7. On May 17, 2005, Patient A was noted to be confused with slurred speech and an
unsteady gait, which was again attributed to lithium toxicity. The patient’s BUN, creatinine, lithium
and Depakote levels were again tested. Respondent went on vacation that same day and that the
patient’s lithium levels were unavailable before his departure. Respondent arranged for Patient A to be
monitored by another practitioner.

8. On May 18, 2007, Patient A was transferred to an intensive care facility at the
recommend of the new practitioner. It was there determined that Patient A was suffering from renal and
respiratory failure due to lithium toxicity.

9. NRS 630.301(4) provides that it is grounds for initiating disciplinary action if a licensee
commits an act of malpractice. NAC 630.040, for the purposes of Chapter 630 of the NRS, defines
“malpractice” as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or

knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.


BeRREBRRE SERRATE BGHR ES

10. In treating Patient A, the Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or
knowledge that would normally be used in similar circumstances, when Respondent initially increased
Patient A’s lithium dosage in such an acute manner, and thereafter, failed to properly supervise and
manage Patient A’s lithium treatment course.

11. By reason of the foregoing, the Respondent violated NRS 630.301(4), and is subject to
discipline as provided by NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
prays that the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners conduct a hearing on this Complaint as provided
by statute, and that the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, after such
hearing, take such action as may be just and proper pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes.

; ott
DATED this day of May, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA)
COUNTY OF CLARK)

Sohail U. Anjum, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a

complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint

festa

Sohail U. Anjum, M. D.

against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this St? day of May, 2008.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 5 day of May 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION, NOTICE OF PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING, along with copy

of appointment letter, by mailing via USPS certified return receipt to the following:

Adekundle Ajayi, M.D.
6115 West Harmon Ave., # 40
Las Vegas, NV 89103

Dated this 5" day of May 2008.

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

