OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559




BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and ) NO Case No. 08-5334-1
Complaint Against ) FILED Pe cen be / p 22H EF

) (2-2,
RANDALL FOSTER, M.D., ) CLERK OF THE BOARD


Respondent. )

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF RESPONDENT’S ABILITY TO
PRESCRIBE, ADMINISTER, OR DISPENSE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES

This matter came on for hearing at an emergency meeting of the Nevada State Board of

Medical Examiners (Board) convened pursuant to NRS 241.020 and conducted telephonically on
the 1% day of December, 2008, to consider the request for summary suspension of Respondent’s
ability to prescribe, administer, or dispense controlled substances filed herein on
December 1, 2008 by the Board’s Investigative Committee. A quorum of the members of the
Board who constitute the adjudicative panel in this case, consisting of Charles N. Held, M.D.,
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Ms. Renee West, Javaid Anwar, M.D. and Ms. Jean Stoess, M.A.,
Board Members, were present telephonically. Also present telephonically was Christine Guerci-
Nyhus, Chief Deputy Attorney General as counsel for the Board. Edward O. Cousineau, General
Counsel for the Board, appeared as counsel for the Investigative Committee.

The adjudicative panel reviewed the Investigative Committee’s Complaint, the request for
summary suspension contained therein, and the attached exhibit. Upon review of the Complaint,
request for summary suspension and attached exhibit, as well as the argument and presentation of
counsel for the Investigative Committee, the adjudicative members of the Board find and
conclude by a preponderance of evidence:

1. That Respondent, Dr. Randall Foster, is a physician licensed to practice medicine
in the State of Nevada and possesses the ability to prescribe controlled substances without

N

limitation.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



2. That the medical records of Patients A, B, C, and D addressed in the underlying
complaint lack evidence of sufficient physical examinations, consistent documentation of vital
signs being monitored throughout the patient’s treatment course, or medical justification for the
continued prescribing of controlled substances.

3. That Patient A was provided prescriptions for opiates on a regular basis by
Dr. Foster for nearly six years and during that time Dr. Foster documented only one limited
physical exam. Furthermore, Dr. Foster continued to prescribe significant amounts of opiates for
Patient A after Patient A wrote him a letter admitting she, Patient A, was struggling with
addiction to the prescribed medications and that she was taking the medications only to avoid
withdrawal symptoms. Patient A’s addiction likely contributed to Patient A’s overall
dissatisfaction with her life and may have contributed to her committing suicide.

4. That unforeseen circumstances have arisen and exist that pose a risk of
impairment of the health and safety of the public and that require immediate Board action,
especially because the Board’s investigation is ongoing, and which involves conduct which is
based upon conduct similar to the conduct described in this Order. Therefore, allowing
Dr. Foster to continue to prescribe, administer, or dispense controlled substances presents an
unacceptable risk to the citizens of Nevada.

Now therefore, pursuant to NRS 233B.127:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the ability of Randall Foster, M.D., to prescribe,
administer, or dispense controlled substances in the state of Nevada is hereby suspended pending
proceedings for disciplinary action pursuant to the Complaint filed herein and issuance of a final
order, or until further order of this Board.

Dated this 1° day of December, 2008.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Charles N. Held —
President

