- WY NN



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
a
In the Matter of Charges and )
Complaint Against ) N@ase-No-08-8567-1
) FILED 7? Doce tus ZOOS
TERESA CHARNIGA, M.D., ) ;
) CLERK OF THE BOARD
Respondent. )

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman,
Cindy Lamerson, M.D., Member, and Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, by and through Edward Cousineau,
Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, and Teresa Charniga, M.D.
(Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on August 22, 2008, the IC of the Board filed a formal complaint in the above-
referenced matter, charging Respondent with violations of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), to
wit: obtaining, maintaining or renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice
medicine by bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete
statement, a violation of NRS 630.304(1), and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Complaint, reviewed it, understands the
nature and significance of the Complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning her rights and
defenses to the Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and
concludes that she has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that she has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act

(NRS Chapter 630) and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but

not limited to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against her, the right to representation by counsel
in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the might to confrontation and
cross-examination of witnesses against her, the right to present evidence and witnesses on her own behalf,
the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to
judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to her; and

WHEREAS, provided this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent agrees to waive all
of her rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical
Practice Act, and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a
hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and she agrees to settle
and resolve this matter of the formal complaint against her by way of, and in accordance with, this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between herself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regularly-scheduled quarterly meeting, duly noticed, and
that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to
decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the IC each understand and agree that if the Board approves the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent and the Board’s IC;

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought against
her by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the JC hereby agree to the
following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act
(NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by L. Kristopher Rath, whom

Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent, and fully advised in these circumstances,



and Respondent further covenants and agrees that she enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly and
intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this Agreement

knowingly, willingly, and intelligently and that he has been afforded the opportunity to consult with legal
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, provided the Board
accepts this Agreement, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to her
or that may apply to her in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein, the defense of
said complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said complaint, and Respondent further agrees that
the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to
judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and agrees

that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent violated one or more provisions of
the Medical Practice Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against her without any further cost and expense of providing a defense to the
complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that an order may be entered herein by the Board against her, finding
that Respondent has violated the Medical Practice Act to wit: obtaining, maintaining or renewing a license
by false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement, a violation of NRS 630.304(1), that Respondent
will be publicly reprimanded, that Respondent will be fined in the amount of $1,000.00, that Respondent
agrees to pay the costs of investigation and prosecution of this matter in the current amount of
$2,858.52 along with the further costs to conclude the matter, if any, along with the aforementioned
fine, within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the

Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the

Bh WY NH



formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel
of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants and
agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or
opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of his counsel, and that such contacts and
communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the complaint,
the allegations in the complaint, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the complaint, and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the complaint against Respondent.

7, Board Approval Required. This Agreement will be placed on the next available Agenda

of a regularly scheduled and duly noticed quarterly Board meeting. It is expressly understood that this
Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the IC for acceptance.

8. Effect_of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the IC
will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order finding Respondent violated NRS 630.304(1) and will
be sanctioned in accordance with the previously cited terms.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,

accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, including
adjudication of the case, and Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such
member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for herself,

her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the

Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees in their

—_—


representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of bad faith, from any and
all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or
claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by
reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection
with the complaint. The IC hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims
related to the complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

11. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and

enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or
tribunal having jurisdiction.

12. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

13. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an action

is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall

be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.
Dated this 6 “day of Get@@e— _, 2008.

Edward Cousineau, Esq.

Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


“DOD


27 -


I am in agreement with all of the terms of the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent

Agreement signed on the 22" day of September, by Edward Cousineau, Esq., Attorney for the

Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

Dated this 0 day or SEPT 2008.

Teresa Charniga, M.D).
Respondent


L. Kristopher Rath
Attorney for Teresa Charniga

Signature of Teresa Charniga, M.D.
subscribed and sworn to before me

thisa6¥ day of Segkern bur 2008

Notary PublicJ 9

DANETTE YOUNG

Notary Public State of
Appointment No. 06-102398 @

My Appt. Expires Jan. 9, 2010

PN ry

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT
AGREEMENT is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on
the 5" day of December 2008.

“44s

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, Vice President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

