

For Public
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KReRKKS*

In The Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against No, Case No. 08-8567-1
TERESA CHARNIGA, M.D. FILED _Oo- Aug Aad U8

Respondent. & C2
CUTIVE BIRECTOR

fo

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed

COMPLAINT

of Charles N. Held, M.D., Cindy Lamerson, M.D., and Jean Stoess, M.A., by and through Edward O.
Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Board, having a reasonable basis to believe that Teresa
Charniga, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630,
hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as
follows:

1. Respondent was granted a license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada on March
17, 1990, and at all times alleged herein, was actively licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions
of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. On May 29, 2003, the Board received Respondent’s Application for Registration
Renewal of License for the 2003-2005 biennial registration period. Question 6 of the Application
asked: Have you ever been investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo
contendere to any offense or violation of any federal, state or local law...which is a misdemeanor, gross
misdemeanor, or felony, excluding any minor traffic offense (driving or in control of a motor vehicle
while under the influence of any chemical substance is not considered a minor traffic offense). ..?

Respondent answered in the negative.



3. On June 7, 2005, the Board received Respondent’s Application for Registration Renewal
of License for the 2005-2007 biennial registration period. Question 6 of the Application asked: Have
you ever been investigated for, charged with, convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere to any
offense or violation of any federal, state or local law...which is a misdemeanor, gross misdemeanor, or
felony, excluding any minor traffic offense (driving or in control of a motor vehicle while under the
influence of any chemical substance is not considered a minor traffic offense)...? Respondent again
answered in the negative.

4, Precedent to the filing of this Complaint, the Board became aware that Respondent was
arrested for driving under the influence (DUD on January 19, 2003. Further, Court records obtained by
the Board indicate that on October 16, 2003, Respondent appeared in the Las Vegas Justice Court,
where she pled guilty to the charge of DUI, and that the adjudication of guilt withheld by the Court
contingent upon Respondent completing various court ordered conditions. On January 14, 2004, the |
Court amended the DUI charge, and found Respondent guilty of reckless driving, based upon her
compliance with its’ previously ordered terms.

5. Based upon the foregoing, Respondent failed to report to the Board the arrest referenced

|| in paragraph 4 in either her 2003-2005 or 2005-2007 Registration Renewal of Licensure Applications.

Section 630.301(4) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that obtaining, maintaining or renewing or
attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or
misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement is grounds for
disciplinary action.

6. Respondent violated NRS 630.304(1) when she failed to disclose to the Board the arrests
referenced in paragraph 4 and is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Board fix a time and place for a formal hearing;

2. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him, the time and place
set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against him;

3. That the Board determine what sanctions it deems appropriate to impose for the violation

committed by Respondent; and



4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of
law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions imposed.

nA
DATED this_o¢2 “ day of August, 2008.

Edward O. Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

> SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _)

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this Zt day of August, 2008.

CHAR OD |

Charles N. Held, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that on
the 22% day of August 2008, I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF
PREHEARING/HEARING & copy of appointment letter by mailing via USPS certified return receipt

to the following:

Teresa Chamiga, M.D.
3121 S. Maryland Parkway, Ste. #216
Las Vegas, NV 89109

Dated this 22"¢ day of August 2008.

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

