

1]

For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kek AK KS

In The Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against NO. Case No. 08-9279-1
ELLIOTT D. SCHMERLER, M.D., FILED 20 W\ arth ox
Respondent. 4.
XECUTIVE DIRECTOR

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the state of Nevada,

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Cindy Lamerson, M.D. Member, and Jean Stoess,
M.A., Member, by and through Lyn E. Beggs, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Elhott D. Schmerler, M.D., hereinafter
referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal
Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1, Respondent is currently licensed in active status with conditions to practice medicine in
the state of Nevada, and was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter

referred to as “the Board,” pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent was initially licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners in
July 1985.
3. Respondent’s license was revoked in April 2003 after formal disciplinary action was

taken against Respondent.

4. In October 2006, Respondent reapplied for a medical license in Nevada. On his
application he indicated that he was currently certified by the American Board of Family Medicine,

hereinafter referred to as “ABFM,” and that his certification was set to expire in July 2007.

Hl




5. On December 6, 2006, Respondent appeared before the Board at a regularly schedule
meeting and was granted a license to practice medicine with two conditions: first, Respondent was not
to practice cosmetic or plastic surgery in the state of Nevada; and second, Respondent agreed to
maintain his certification with the ABFM.

6. In May 2007, Respondent renewed his Nevada medical license and did indicate in his
on-line renewal application that he remained certified by the ABFM.

7. On September 18, 2007, Terri Ward, compliance officer contacted Respondent
requesting proof of his current ABFM certification.

8. On October 10, 2007, a response was received from Respondent indicating that he
attempted to recertify with the ABFM but had received correspondence indicating that he was ineligible
to apply for recertification as the ABFM considered his Nevada license to be restricted due to the two
conditions placed on it.

9. Shortly after receiving Respondent’s reply, correspondence was received from the
ABFM dated October 24, 2007, indicating the dates that Respondent had been certified by the ABFM
and indicating that Respondent was currently withdrawn from the ABFM and had been so since
September 7, 2001.

10. | Additional correspondence was received from ABFM on November 19, 2007 indicating
that Respondent had been notified by certified letter on February 14, 2002, that his Diplomate status
was revoked. ABFM included a copy of the certified letter as well as a copy of the return receipt
indicating that the certified letter had been received and signed for by someone at the address of
Respondent on February 19, 2002.

Count!

11. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.304(1) provides that the obtaining, maintaining, or
renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or
misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement is grounds for
disciplinary action.

12. Respondent obtained a license to practice medicine by misrepresentation and by a false,

misleading and inaccurate statement when he indicated on his October 2006 application for licensure

and to the Board during his December 2006 appearance that he was certified by the ABFM at the time
of the application when in actuality his Diplomate status had been revoked in 2001.

13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Count Il

14. | Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.304(1) provides that the obtaining, maintaining, or
renewing or attempting to obtain, maintain or renew a license to practice medicine by bribery, fraud or
misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete statement is grounds for
disciplinary action.

15. Respondent renewed his license to practice medicine by misrepresentation and by a false,
misleading and inaccurate statement when he indicated during his on-line renewal process that he
remained certified by the ABFM when his Diplomate status was revoked in 2001.

16. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a formal
hearing;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give respondent notice of the
charges herein against him, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against
him;

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose for the violation or violations committed by Respondent;

4. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and
Mf

Hl




5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further action as

may be just and proper in these premises.
coe
DATED this & day of March, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

wey apge—

Lyn F. Beggs
Attorney for the Investi a. committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners




VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

1 SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint

against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this 20 day of March , 2008.

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 20" day of March 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF PRE-
HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING, PATIENT DESIGNATION, & along with appointment
letter, by mailing via USPS certified return receipt mail to the following:
Elliott D. Schmerler, M.D.

8380 E. Windrose Drive
Scottsdale, AZ 85260

Dated this 20" day of March 2008.

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

