

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR RSE

In the Matter of Charges and
Complaint Against NO. Case No. 08-9484-1

JOHN THALGOTT, M.D., FILED 26 Sune. 2-9 OF
Respondent.

XECUTIVE DIRECTOR

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed of
Charles N. Held, M.D., Cindy Lamerson, M.D., and Jean Stoess, M.A., by and through
Edward Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to
believe that John Thalgott, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and
allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada, and at all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. On or about January 9, 2008, a Criminal Indictment was filed in the United States
District Court, District of Nevada (Case No. 02:07-cr-0039-JLQ-LRL), against two Defendants,
Howard Awand, Esq. and Noel Gage, Esq., alleging various charges including mail fraud, wire fraud
and conspiracy.

3. One of the bases for the criminal charges levied against Mr. Gage by the government
was his alleged fraudulent conduct involving his representation of a client who suffered permanent
paralysis after undergoing spinal surgery which was performed by Respondent, and who was later

treated for associated complications by a host of other practitioners, including Respondent’s former


NO NYO NYO NY NY NY NY NO NO #& #= HF FS FO SFO OU eSellllUc aeSl lUc | le

practice associate, Dr. Mark Kabins. The government’s contention in this regard was that Mr. Gage
had entered into a conspiracy that provided that in exchange for Mr. Gage not bringing civil causes of
action against Respondent and Dr. Kabins regarding their care and treatment of Mr. Gage’s client,
which could have potentially had a negative impact on their malpractice insurance, Respondent and Dr.
Kabins would refer business, i.e. potential malpractice litigation matters, to Mr. Gage in the future.

4. Respondent’s testimony was significant to establish elements of the government’s case
and as a result, he was granted prosecutorial “use” immunity by the United States Attorney’s Office in
exchange for his testimony against Mr. Gage at the criminal trial.

5. The trial of the two Defendants was severed after the aforementioned Criminal
Indictment filing and the criminal proceeding solely against Mr. Gage took place from February 19,
2008 to March 11, 2008. |

6. On or about February 21, 2008, Respondent testified at the criminal proceeding
regarding his involvement in the alleged criminal enterprise. During this testimony, Respondent
indicated under oath that he lied under oath previously when he attended a deposition where
Respondent and Dr. Kabins were deposed by Mr. Gage as possible witnesses in civil court filings
against other medical providers in the care and treatment of Mr. Gage’s client. Specifically,
Respondent’s deposition testimony placed blame for Mr. Gage’s client’s paralysis on other practitioners
involved in the client’s care and treatment, and not Dr. Kabins. Further, Respondent testified that the
disingenuous deposition testimony was offered to protect himself and Dr. Kabins from being sued for
medical malpractice by Mr. Gage, and thereby negating the potential for Respondent’s and Dr. Kabins’

malpractice insurance to be negatively affected by their associated medical conduct.

COUNT I
7. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in full.
8. Section 630.301(9) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in conduct that

brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline.
9. Respondent violated Section 630.301(9) when he knowingly and _ purposefully
misrepresented his professional medical opinion during a sworn deposition and later acknowledged this

disreputable conduct during his sworn testimony in a United States District Court proceeding.



COUNT II
10. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in full.
11. Section 630.306(2)(a) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in any
conduct which is intended to deceive is grounds for disciplinary action.

12. Respondent violated Section 630.306(2)(a) when he knowingly and purposefully

“misrepresented his professional medical opinion during a sworn deposition and later acknowledged this

deceitful conduct during his sworn testimony in a United States District Court proceeding.

13. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board
of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays that the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners conduct a hearing on the Complaint herein as provided by statute, find and determine that
Respondent has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), enter
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and an order imposing sanctions upon Respondent according to
NRS 630.352 and take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these premises

DATED this #G Sy of June 2008.

Edward Cousineau
Attomey for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


BSa& RP SB BRB CFPaerWT_RarR Bez Ss

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
> SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this 267 _ day of June, 2008.

CARON ©

Charles N. Held, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 26" day of June 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF
PREHEARING & HEARING & copy of the appointment letter, via USPS certified return receipt
to the following:
Bailus Cook & Kelesis, LTD.
George Kelesis, Esq.

400 South 4" St., Ste. 300
Las Vegas, NV 89101

Dated this 26'" day of June 2008.

Line. FD m2 hn

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

