

oN

PY

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In The Matter of Charges and )

) Case No. 08-9241-1
Complaint Against ) NO.

) FILED 25 Apacs owe
ELADIO SANTANA CARRERA, M.D.,  ) Og,

me ;
Respondent. ) “Pons EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ——

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Board of Medical Examiners of the state of Nevada,

composed of Charles N. Held, M.D., Chairman, Cindy Lamerson, M.D. Member, and
Jean Stoess, M.A., Member, by and through Lyn E. Beggs, Deputy General Counsel for the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners, having a reasonable basis to believe that Eladio Santana Carrera,
M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of NRS Chapter 630, hereby
issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status, and was so licensed by the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners, hereinafter referred to as “the Board,” pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, at the time of the incidents in question.

2. Respondent is an owner of the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada, LLC, hereinafter
referred to as “ECSN,” located at 700 Shadow Lane in Las Vegas, Nevada, and was at the time of the
incidents in question.

3. Patient A was a fifty-four-year-old female at the time of the matter in question. Her true
identity is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation
served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

4. On September 21, 2007, Patient A underwent a colonoscopy at ECSN, which was
performed by Respondent.




5. Subsequent to the procedure, Patient A tested positive for hepatitis C, although prior to
the colonoscopy patient A was not known to have hepatitis C.

6. Due to unsafe practices and policies at ECSN, Patient A contracted hepatitis C while at
ECSN for her colonoscopy.

7. Respondent knew, or should have known, of the unsafe practices and policies at ECSN,
both as a physician at, and owner of, the ECSN, which placed Patient A’s health and safety at risk.

8. Patient B was a sixty-year-old female at the time of the matter in question. Her true
identity is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation
served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

9. On September 21, 2007, Patient B underwent an upper Gl endoscopy at ECSN, which
was performed by Respondent.

10. Subsequent to the procedure, Patient B tested positive for hepatitis C, although prior to
the colonoscopy Patient B was not known to have hepatitis C.

11. Due to unsafe practices and policies at ECSN, Patient B contracted hepatitis C while at
ECSN for her procedure.

12. Respondent knew, or should have known, of the unsafe practices and policies at ECSN
both as a physician at, and owner of, the ECSN, which placed Patient B’s health and safety at risk.

13. Patient C was a sixty-eight-year-old female at the time of the matter in question. Her
true identity is not disclosed to protect her privacy, but her identity is disclosed in the Patient
Designation served on Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

14. On September 21, 2007, Patient C underwent a colonoscopy at ECSN, which was
performed by Respondent.

15. Subsequent to the procedure, Patient C tested positive for hepatitis C, although prior to
the colonoscopy Patient C was not known to have hepatitis C.

16. Due to unsafe practices and policies at ECSN, Patient C contracted hepatitis C while at
ECSN for her colonoscopy.

17. Respondent knew, or should have known, of the unsafe practices and policies at ECSN,

both as a physician at, and owner of, the ECSN, which placed Patient C’s health and safety at risk.



Count I

18. | Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances.

19. | Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a physician.

20. Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances when he performed a colonoscopy on Patient A, knowing, or being in a position
to have known, that the unsafe practices and policies at ECSN could put Patient A’s health and safety at
risk, resulting in Patient A contracting hepatitis C, constituting a violation of Nevada Revised Statutes
Section 630.301 (4).

21. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count II

22. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(7) provides that engaging in conduct that
violates the trust of a patient and exploits the relationship between the physician and patient for
financial gain is grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

23. Respondent violated the trust of Patient A and exploited the physician-patient
relationship for financial gain when he performed a colonoscopy on Patient A at a facility in which he
had a financial interest, knowing, or being in a position that he should have known, of the unsafe
practices at the facility that could put the health and safety of Patient A at risk, resulting in Patient A
contracting hepatitis C, constituting a violation of Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(7).

24. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count HI

25. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(9) provides that engaging in conduct that

brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds of initiating discipline.

Mf

& Ww NWN


vl

26. Respondent brought the medical profession into disrepute when he engaged in conduct
as outlined above which placed Patient A’s health and safety at risk, resulting in Patient A contracting
hepatitis C, thus violating Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(9).

27. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count IV

28. Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances.

29, Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a physician.

30. Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances when he performed an upper GI endoscopy on Patient B, knowing, or being in a
position to have known, that the unsafe practices and policies at ECSN could put Patient B’s health and
safety at risk, resulting in Patient B contracting hepatitis C, constituting a violation of Nevada Revised
Statutes Section 630.301(4).

31. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count V

32. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(7) provides that engaging in conduct that
violates the trust of a patient and exploits the relationship between the physician and patient for
financial gain is grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

33. Respondent violated the trust of Patient B and exploited the physician-patient
relationship for financial gain when he performed an upper GI endoscopy on Patient B at a facility in
which he had a financial interest, knowing, or being in a position that he should have known, of the
unsafe practices at the facility that could put the health and safety of Patient B at risk, resulting in

Patient B contracting hepatitis C, constituting a violation of Nevada Revised Statutes Section

630.301(7).



34. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Count VI

35. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(9) provides that engaging in conduct that
brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds of initiating discipline.

36. Respondent brought the medical profession into disrepute when he engaged in conduct
as outlined above which placed Patient B’s health and safety at risk, resulting in Patient B contracting
hepatitis C, thus violating Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(9).

37. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count VII

38. | Nevada Administrative Code Section 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a
physician, in treating a patient, to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances.

39. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(4) provides that malpractice is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action against a physician.

40. Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under
similar circumstances when he performed a colonoscopy on Patient C, knowing, or being in a position
to have known, that the unsafe practices and policies at ECSN could put Patient C’s health and safety at
risk, resulting in Patient C contracting hepatitis C, constituting a violation of Nevada Revised Statutes
Section 630.301(4).

41. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count VIII

42. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(7) provides that engaging in conduct that
violates the trust of a patient and exploits the relationship between the physician and patient for
financial gain is grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

Mil

nN



43. Respondent violated the trust of Patient C and exploited the physician-patient
relationship for financial gain when he performed a colonoscopy on Patient C at a facility in which he
had a financial interest, knowing, or being in a position that he should have known, of the unsafe
practices at the facility that could put the health and safety of Patient C at risk, resulting in Patient C
contracting hepatitis C, constituting a violation of Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(7).

44. _ By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count IX

45. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(9) provides that engaging in conduct that
brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds of initiating discipline.

46. Respondent brought the medical profession into disrepute when he engaged in conduct
as outlined above which placed Patient C’s health and safety at risk, resulting in Patient C contracting
hepatitis C, thus violating Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.301(9).

47. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count X

48. Nevada Revised Statutes Section 630.306(7) provides that the continual failure to
exercise the skill or diligence or use the methods ordinarily exercised under the same circumstances by
physicians in good standing practicing in the same specialty or field is grounds for initiating discipline.

49. Respondent failed to exercise the skill or diligence or use the methods ordinarily
exercised under the same circumstances by physicians in good standing practicing in the same specialty
or field when he, by his conduct outlined above, put the health and safety of Patients A, B and C at risk,
as evidence by all three patients contracting hepatitis C.

50. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

HH
HH



WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners fix a time and place for a formal
hearing;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him, the time and place set for the hearing, and the possible sanctions against
him;

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
determines to impose for the violation or violations committed by Respondent;

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further action as
may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this QS day of April, 2008.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

woe = “es ee ,

we E. Beggs
Attofney for the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

COUNTY OF DOUGLAS __ )

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

DATED this 2s day of _ Apes , 2008.

CHARLES N. HELD, M.D.

i]



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on the 25" day of April 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION, NOTICE OF PRE-HEARING CONFERENCE & HEARING, along with copy
of appointment letter, by mailing via FED-EX Priority Overnight to the following:

7401 W. Charleston Blvd.
Las Vegas, NV 89117-1401

Dated this 25" day of April 2008.

Cogs Baka

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

