

For Public

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR ES

In the Matter of Charges and

Complaint Against NO, Case No. 08-9819-1
BENJAMIN VENGER, M.D., FILED_OG <Tino Jv0f
Respondent. ECUTIVE DIRECTOR

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed of

Charles N. Held, M.D., Cindy Lamerson, M.D., and Jean Stoess, M.A., by and through
Edward Cousineau, Deputy General Counsel for the Investigative Committee, having a reasonable basis to
believe that Benjamin Venger, M.D., hereinafter referred to as "Respondent," has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's charges and
allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada, and at all times alleged herein, was so licensed by the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. On or about January 9, 2008, a Criminal Indictment was filed in the United States
District Court, District of Nevada (Case No. 02:07-cr-0039-JLQ-LRL), against two Defendants,
Howard Awand, Esq. and Noel Gage, Esq., alleging various charges including mail fraud, wire fraud
and conspiracy. One of the assertions by the government in the Criminal Indictment was that the
Defendants had entered into a conspiracy that provided monetary remuneration to Respondent in
exchange for Respondent referring potential medical malpractice clients to the Defendants, and
additionally, offering favorable, albeit disingenuous, professional medical opinions in matters involving

clients of the Defendants. Respondent’s testimony was of significant import to establish elements of


NO wpoO PO NO NO NO NO NO NO YF F| Fe HFEF FOO REO EES Eee elle

the government’s case and as a result, he was granted prosecutorial “use” immunity by the United
States Attorney’s Office in exchange for his testimony against Mr. Gage at the criminal trial.

3. The trial of the two Defendants was severed after the aforementioned Criminal
Indictment filing and the criminal proceeding solely against Mr. Gage took place from February 19,
2008 to March 11, 2008.

4. On or about March 3, 2008, Respondent testified under oath at the criminal proceeding
regarding his involvement in the alleged criminal conduct by Mr. Gage. During this testimony,
Respondent indicated that he had previously participated in the referral to, and favorable medical
evaluation of, clients of the Defendants in exchange for monetary compensation from the Defendants.
Moreover, Respondent testified that sworn deposition and trial testimony that he had previously
provided regarding his professional evaluation of a client of Mr. Gage was untruthful in multiple
aspects, and that Respondent offered this untruthful testimony with the intent of positively influencing
the monetary award to Mr. Gage and his client, and receiving monetary remuneration therefore.
Respondent further testified at the criminal proceeding that as an additional incentive, the Defendants
offered to protect Respondent from being sued for medical malpractice by the Defendants and other
attorneys they worked with, thereby negating the potential for Respondent’s malpractice insurance to
be negatively affected, in exchange for these referrals and favorable medical opinions.

COUNT I

5. AJ of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in full.

6. Section 630.301(7) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in conduct that
violates the trust of a patient and exploits the relationship between the physician and the patient for
financial or other personal gain is grounds for discipline.

7. Respondent violated Section 630.301(7) when he knowingly and purposefully referred
clients to the Defendants, and offered untruthful professional medical opinions of clients of the
Defendants during sworn deposition and trial testimony, for monetary and other benefit, and later
acknowledged this disingenuous conduct during his sworn testimony in a United States District Court

proceeding.

Mf



COUNT If

8. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in full.

9. Section 630.301(9) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in conduct that
brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline.

10. | Respondent violated Section 630.301(9) when he knowingly and purposefully referred
clients to the Defendants, and offered untruthful professional medical opinions of clients of the
Defendants during sworn deposition and trial testimony, for monetary and other benefit, and later
acknowledged this disreputable conduct during his sworn testimony in a United States District Court
proceeding.

COUNT Ill

11. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth in full.

12. Section 630.306(2)(a) of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that engaging in any
conduct which is intended to deceive is grounds for disciplinary action.

13. Respondent violated Section 630.306(2)(a) when he knowingly and purposefully referred
clients to the Defendants, and offered untruthful professional medical opinions of clients of the
Defendants during sworn deposition and trial testimony, for monetary and other benefit, and later
acknowledged this deceitful conduct during his sworn testimony in a United States District Court
proceeding.

14. __ By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State Board
of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays that the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners conduct a hearing on the Complaint herein as provided by statute, find and determine that
Respondent has violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630), enter
Mf
HI
I
I
H/



findings of fact, conclusions of law, and an order imposing sanctions upon Respondent according to
NRS 630.352 and take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these premises.
DATED this © & “day of June, 2008.

Edward Cousineau
Attorney for the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

> SS.
COUNTY OF DOUGLAS _ )

Charles N. Held, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty of
perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing
Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the investigation into a
complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint
against Respondent are true, accurate, and correct.

Dated this A b Hy day of June, 2008.

CHAO

Charles N. Held, M.D.



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING

| hereby certify that | am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and

that on the 26" day of June 2008, | served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, NOTICE OF

PREHEARING & HEARING & copy of the appointment letter, via USPS certified return receipt

to the following:

Dated this 26" day of June 2008.

Snell & Wilmer

Kathleen Janssen, Esq.

3883 Howard Hughes Pkwy Ste. 1100
Las Vegas, NV 89169

Angelia Donohoe
Legal Assistant

