

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 10-9819-1

Complaint Against ) FILED

BENJAMIN VENGER, M.D., NOV 3 0 2012
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fisher, M.D., by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Benjamin Venger, M.D. (Respondent), by and through David J. Mortensen, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on February 22, 2011, the Board’s IC filed an Amended Complaint in the above-
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to
the Medical Practice Act, Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630, to wit: one count of malpractice, as
Respondent failed to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used in similar circumstances,
and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Amended Complaint,
understands it, and has been afforded the opportunity to consult with counsel concerning the nature and
significance of the Complaint, and Respondent fully understands his rights and defenses regarding the
Amended Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and
concludes that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice

Act; and



WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that he has certain rights under the United States
Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice Act
and the Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), the right to a formal hearing on the charges
against him, the right to representation by counsel in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the
right to confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses against him, the right to written findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order regarding a final decision by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any
final decision by the Board that is adverse to him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based upon his understanding of the relevant facts and circumstances,
and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all of his rights under the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada
Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to a hearing on the charges and a
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and he desires to settle and resolve this matter of the
formal Complaint against him by way of and in accordance with this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this Agreement to
the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and scheduled, and that the
IC will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms, covenants
and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be
binding and enforceable upon him; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below
shall not be binding and enforceable upon him, except the provisions as to disqualification of adjudicating
panel members in paragraph number 9, and he will be provided with an opportunity to defend himself
against the charges against him at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with all applicable laws.

Hl



NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending Amended Complaint and charges brought
against him by the Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the
following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent was, at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the above-
captioned matter, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, subject to jurisdiction
of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice Act, and to impose
sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel named herein, whom

Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and advised in these circumstances and
Respondent further covenants and agrees that he enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly and
intelligently, after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel. |

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, voluntarily and intelligently waives all rights arising
under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada,
NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to him or that may apply to him in
connection with the proceedings on the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint, the
adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and the imposition of sanctions, and Respondent further
agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the
right to judicial review.

4. No Admission of Liability. This Agreement is neither an admission of liability by

Respondent nor a concession by the IC that its claims as alleged in the underlying Amended Complaint
are not well founded.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
Amended Complaint, Respondent, while not admitting or denying the allegations set forth in the Amended
Complaint, hereby agrees to a stipulated resolution, to wit: that in treating the patients referenced in the

Amended Complaint filed by the IC, Respondent failed to maintain timely, legible, accurate and




complete medical records, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1). In recognition of such, Respondent agrees
to perform 100 hours of community service without compensation, in a manner and capacity mutually
and reasonably agreed to by Respondent and the Board, and approved by the Board in advance of its
completion, within eighteen months of the adoption of this Agreement; to donate $5,000.00 to a charity
mutually agreeable to the parties; and to reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred
in the investigation and prosecution of this case in the current amount of $9,324.17, plus any additional
reasonable costs that may be accrued prior to the entry of the Board’s Order relating to this matter. The
aforementioned costs are to be paid to the Board within 60 days of the acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement by the Board. A final accounting of the additional costs will be provided to
Respondent in the entry of the Board’s Order relating to the matter.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for himself,

his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of Nevada, the
Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and employees, in their
individual and representative capacities, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits,
debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity,
that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action,
this settlement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to the
Amended Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this
Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the
panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent covenants
and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or
opportunity to be heard on his part, and that such contacts and communications may include, but not be
limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Amended Complaint, the allegations in the Amended

Complaint, any and all evidence that may exist in support of the Amended Complaint, and any and all



information of every nature whatsoever related to the Complaint or the proceedings herein against
Respondent.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will enter
an order consistent with the terms noted previously in paragraph number 5 and dismissing the
underlying Complaint.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not approve,

accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that, not
withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing that
occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by
the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the
charges against Respondent and participating in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and
Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad
faith.

10. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and

enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or
tribunal having jurisdiction. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited herein may result in
additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a violation of an order of the Board
in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Additionally, failure to pay any fee or cost ordered herein may
also result in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fee or cost.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District
Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.





12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent and the Board’s IC covenant and agree that in

the event an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the

prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

Dated this /Y "say of November, 2012.

CELE be

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Benjamin Venger, M.D]
Respondent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 30th day of

November 2012, with the final total amount of costs due of $9,324.17.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

