& Ww N



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KR ES

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-10032-1

) LED
Complaint Against ) ; -

JUN <9 2012
MARYANNE PHILLIPS, M.D., ) NEVADA STATE BOARD_OF

| oy BAL ese

Respondent. ) vs a
_)

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed at the time of filing of the Complaint of
Charles N. Held, M.D, Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., and Ms. Valerie Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF,
by and through counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Maryanne Phillips, M.D. (Respondent), by and
through her counsel, Jess Marchese, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on January 28, 2011, the Investigative Committee filed a Complaint in the
above- referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630) to
wit: one count of engaging in conduct intended to deceive as set forth in count I of the Complaint,
a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(a); one count of a violation of a regulation adopted by the State
Board of Pharmacy, as set forth in count II of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(c);
one count of prescribing a controlled substance except as authorized by law, as set forth in count III
of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(3); and one count of failure to maintain timely,
legible, accurate and complete medical records related to the diagnosis, treatment and care of
patient, as set forth in count IV of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1); and .

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands
it, has consulted with competent counsel as noted above concerning the nature and significance of

the Complaint and is fully advised concerning her rights and defenses to the Complaint, as well as



the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the
Board) finds and concludes that she has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant
to the Medical Practice Act and after due consideration concedes that she engaged in conduct
which is in violation of the Medical Practice Act, as set forth in counts I and IV, and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between herself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,
covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the

Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against her without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees a stipulated resolution in
this matter is fair and appropriate and that an order may be entered herein by the Board finding that
Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act
to wit: engaging in conduct intended to deceive, as set forth in count I of the Complaint, a violation
of NRS 630.306(2)(a), and failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical
records related to the diagnosis, treatment and care of patient, as set forth in count IV of the
Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.3062(1); and ordering that Respondent’s license to practice
medicine be revoked. Said revocation shall be stayed, and Respondent shall be placed on thirty-six

(36) months probation pursuant to the following terms and conditions:

KR WY NWN



a.) Respondent shall be issued a public letter of reprimand;

b.) Respondent must comply with all state and federal laws regarding the prescribing,
administration, and dispensing of dangerous drugs and controlled substances;

C.) Respondent shall be subject to random reviews of her patient records and
acknowledges that her prescribing profile maintained through the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy
shall be monitored on a regular basis during the period of probation;

d.) Respondent shall pay a fine of $5,000 for counts I and IV, for a total of $10,000;

e.) Respondent shall be responsible for the costs incurred in monitoring her
compliance with the terms of this Agreement and shall reimburse said expenses within thirty (30)
days of the date of any invoices for said costs;

f.) Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred
in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $5,847.38, not including
any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement;

g.) The fine and costs shall be remitted separately to the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners within one-hundred-eighty (180) days of the acceptance of this Agreement
by the Board; Respondent may arrange a payment schedule with the Compliance Officer after
acceptance of this Agreement by the Board.

Furthermore, counts II and III of the Complaint shall be dismissed. This Agreement
shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required by law, including, but not
limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in
the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act. |

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, intelligently and after consultation with counsel. In connection
with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent

knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United


Sa DWN WN


States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter
233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection with the
proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint and the
adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the
disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in
accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right
to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall
have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS
Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection
with the proceeding on the Complaint filed herein.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and

agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent
violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly with Board staff
and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made
or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in

support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the

a



Complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that
Respondent and her counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed
in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

6. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

7. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

8. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary

action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the Complaint. The Investigative

012 09:11 machese (FAX)7024744210 P.006/006
o4i17!2 :

v

i

1 || Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in 0 settlement of all claims related to the

2 || Complain, with tho mderetanding thatthe Enal deat | vests with the Board,

3 9.  Bindlug Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement ig a

4 || binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent ol the Board's Investigative Committee,

$ || which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal haifing jurisdiction.

6 10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

7 }} either party is required fo seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents

8 |) to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exchisive jurisdiction shall be in the Second

g | Judicial District Court of the Stato of Nevade in and forthe Couuty of Washoe,

10 | 11. Attorneys’ Fess and Costs. Responden covenants atid agtees that in the ovent
an action is commenced in the district court to enforcl any provision of this Agreement, the

12 prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

13 12, Failure to Comply With Texymg. in the event the Board enters its Order
14 |] approving this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terme recited herein, the
15 || Board would then have grounds, after notice and a heating, to take disciplinary action against
16 || Respondent in addition to that inclnded herein for the subjoot’s violation of an Order of the
17 | Board in _aovordance with NRS $30.3065@2}a). Maieaver, the failure of Respondent to
18 || reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be pald as! condition of settlement may subject
19 || Respondent to clvjl collection efforts, .
20 || Dated this 22” day of April, 2012,

Dated this day of April, 2012,



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of June

2012, with the final total amount of costs due of $5,847.38.

UT 2An—

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

