

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

woe ek

In The Matter of Charges and )

) Case No. 11-10054-1
Complaint Against )

) FILED
SUSAN L. BOYD, M.D., SEP 11 291

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, J.D., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Susan L. Boyd, M.D. (hereinafter Respondent), by and through her counsel,
Kristine J. Maxwell, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about April 18, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a formal complaint in the
above-referenced matter charging Respondent of engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
under Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS), to wit: three violations of
NRS 630.301(4); and

_ WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the complaint, understands it,
and has consulted with competent counsel, Kristine J, Maxwell, Esq., concerning the nature and
significance of the complaint, and Respondent is fully advised concerning her rights and defenses to
the complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes
that she has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act
(NRS Chapter 630); and
Mh




WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that she has certain rights under the United
States Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Nevada, as well as under the Medical Practice
Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act (NRS Chapter 233B), including but not limited
to the right to a formal hearing on the charges against her, the right to representation by counsel in
the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confrontation and cross-examination of
witnesses against her, the right to written findings, conclusions and order regarding a final decision
by the Board, and the right to judicial review of any final decision by the Board that is adverse to her;
and

WHEREAS, Respondent, based on her understanding of the relevant facts and
circumstances, and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, desires to waive all of her
rights under the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, the Medical
Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedures Act, including but not limited to the right to
a hearing on the charges and written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, and she desires to
settle and resolve the matter of the formal complaint against her by way of and in accordance with
this Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by and
between herself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a regular meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC will advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board
has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon her; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that, if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon her except the provisions as to
disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 9, and he will be provided with

tif

me Ww he

1i

i4


an opportunity to defend herself against the charges against her at a regularly scheduled hearing in
accordance with all applicable laws.

" NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the pending complaint and charges brought
against her by the Board’s Investigative Committee in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and
the IC hereby agree to the following tenns, covenants and conditions:

]. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada, subject
to jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the Medical Practice
Act, and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel. Respondent is represented by counsel herein, whom
Respondent covenants and agrees is fully capable, competent and fully advised in these
circumstances, and Respondent further covenants and agrees that she enters into this Agreement
knowingly, willingly, and intelligently after full consultation with and upon the advice of counsel.

- 3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and

conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, with the advice of
above-identified counsel, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States
Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that
may be available to her or that may apply to her in connection with the proceeding on the complaint
filed herein, the defense of said complaint, the adjudication of the charges in said complaint and the
imposition of sanctions, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action
commenced by complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement
without a hearing or any further proceeding and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s IC has a reasonable basis to believe that Respondent engaged in one or more
instances of conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice
Act.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against her without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the

ba



complaint, Respondent hereby agrees and does not contest that an order may be entered herein by the
Board against her finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant
to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: two counts of failing to maintain timely and complete medical
records related to her care and treatment of two patients at issue in the associated underlying
complaint, violations of NRS 630.3062(1), that Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, that
within one year of the acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, Respondent shall
complete ten (10) hours of Continuing Medical Education (CME) regarding the subject of medical
record keeping, which are to be approved by the Board in advance of their accomplishment. The
aforementioned CME’s are to be in addition to any CME requirements that are regulariy imposed
upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the state of Nevada, and lastly, that Respondent
shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of this case in the current amount of $3,369.37, plus any additional costs that may be
accrued subsequent to dispose of this matter. The aforementioned costs are to be paid to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within sixty (60) days of the acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement by the Board. A final accounting of the additional costs will be
provided to Respondent in the entry of the Board’s Order relating to the matter.

6. Release_ From Liability. In execution of this Settlement Agreement, the

Respondent, for herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever
discharges the state of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their
members, agents and employees in their individual and representative capacities, from any and all
mannet of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein against Respondent pursuant to

the formal complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this



Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the
panel of the Board that would adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing. Respondent
covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made or conducted ex parte,
without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his counsel, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the complaint, the allegations in the complaint any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, the Board will
enter herein an order finding that in two instances Respondent violated NRS 630.3062(1), that
Respondent shall be publicly reprimanded, and that Respondent complete the CME requirements
and pay the costs and expenses of the investigation and prosecution of this matter as provided in
paragraph 5 herein.

9. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, not withstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceedings in any role, and Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to
disqualify any such member.

10. Binding Effect, Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding
and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in
a court or tribunal having jurisdiction. Additionally, upon receipt of credible information that

Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of the aforementioned order, the

-_ Ww bk

an

i

Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine until
Respondent complies with the term or condition. Further, failure to comply with the terms recited
herein’ may result in additional disciplinary action being initiated against Respondent for a
violation. of an Order of the Board in accordance with
NRS 630.3065(2)a). And, any failure to pay any fine, fee, or cost ordered herein may also result
in such legal action as determined to be necessary to collect the unpaid fine, fee, or cost.

11. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either
party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial
District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

12. Attorneys Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the prevailing

party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

Dated this /7_ “Fay of Powe, 2012. Dated this vs of ere , 2012.

Edward O. Cousineau, J. D. fpathhe J. MM cell en
Attomey for the Investigative Committee ett ney for Res ndent
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

a,

Susan L. Boyd, Respondent

Dated this [2 day of June , 2012.

i)



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of September 2012, with the final total

amount of costs due of $3,369.37.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

