

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
KeReRKER SE

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-26112-1

Complaint Against ) FILED

) JUN =2 2012
SAMI SALIH ZAMZAM, M.D., )

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. ) By:

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board), composed of

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D, Ms. Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, and

Michael J. Fischer, M.D., by and through its counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and

Sami Salih Zamzam, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel, Brent S. Vogel, Esq., as
follows:

WHEREAS, on December 28, 2011, the Board’s Investigative Committee filed a
Complaint in the above-referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS)
Chapter 630), to wit: one count of aiding, assisting, employing or advising, directly or
indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine as set forth in Count I of
the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.305(1)(e); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint,
understands it, and has consulted with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance
of the Complaint and Respondent is fully advised concerning his rights and defenses to the

Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and




concludes that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical
Practice Act. Respondent has reviewed all the relevant facts and circumstances of this matter
and, after due consideration, concedes that while his actions were unintentional, there exists
enough evidence that the Board could consider the allegations set forth in Count I of the
Complaint, and if the allegations were proven, make a finding he violated the Medical Practice
Act as set forth in Count I of the Complaint; and

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that
the Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in
its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree
that if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the
terms, covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon
Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges
brought against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent
and the Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense
to the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent hereby agrees a stipulated
resolution in this matter is fair and appropriate and Respondent hereby agrees, that while his
actions were unintentional, that an order may be entered herein by the Board finding that
Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice
Act, to wit: aiding, assisting, employing or advising, directly or indirectly, any unlicensed




person to engage in the practice of medicine as set forth in count I of the Complaint, a violation
of NRS 630.305(1)(e); and ordering that Respondent be fined $3,000. Respondent shall further
be ordered to reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in the
investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $897.28, not including any
costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. The costs and fine shail be paid to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within ninety (90) days of the acceptance of this
Agreement by the Board.

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was, at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in
the above-captioned matter a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into this
Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with knowledge that he may consult with his
counsel prior to entering into this Agreement. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms,
covenants and conditions contained herein, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently
waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of
the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to
Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection with the proceeding regarding the
Complaint filed herein, the defense of said Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said
Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced
by the filing of the Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this
Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and without the right to judicial review.
In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force
and effect and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States
Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B
that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in connection with the



ao oN DN A SF WY NY |S! SF CO we HN KN HU UWGOULULULN UME CUD

proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent covenants and
agrees that the Board’s Investigative Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that
Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

5. Procedure for Adoption of eement. It is expressly understood that this
Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly with the Board
staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made
or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the
Complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that
Respondent and his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

6. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves
the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver

and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this




case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

7. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

8. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for
himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state
of Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence
of bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this
disciplinary action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the Complaint. The
Investigative Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims
related to the Complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

9. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a
binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee,
which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event


NO N NO NO | mm om mm pe mkemkomnkhamt
nn are


either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents
to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event
an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its Order
approving this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the
Board would then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against
Respondent in addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the
Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to
reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

a_i
Dated this /S day tax he , 2012. Dated this )J day of Wg,

en “BY

Lyn E. Beggs, Esq. Brent S. Vogel, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Lewis, Brisbois, Bisgaard & Smith
of the Nevada State Board of Medical Attorney for Respondent
Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

ont KN AN

ae , Respondent
Dated this Tay of My t , 2012.

me Ww NN



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 8" day of June

2012, with the final total amount of costs due of $897.28.

4172 on

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

