
BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-5972-1

Complaint Against ) FI LE D

KAREN ARCOTTA, M.D., ) NOV 3 0 2012

) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

Respondent By: ee EXAMINERS

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is hereby’ entered into by and_ between the
Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the Board)
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF,
Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
Edward O. Cousineau, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Karen Arcotta, M.D. (Respondent), as follows:

WHEREAS, on or about September 22, 2011, the Board’s IC summarily suspended
Respondent's license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Section 630.326(1); and,

WHEREAS, on or about October 7, 2011, the Board's IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada’s Medical Practice Act, i.e., Chapter 630 of the NRS, to wit:
Count I, one count of failure to be found competent to practice medicine as a result of an
examination to test medical competency, a violation of NRS 630.306(13); Count II, one count of
failing to report in writing, within 30 days, any criminal action taken or conviction obtained
against the licensee, other than a minor traffic violation, a violation of NRS 630.306(12); and

Count II, one count of obtaining, maintaining, or renewing a license to practice medicine by


bribery, fraud or misrepresentation or by any false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete
statement, a violation of NRS 630.304(1); and,

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the Order of Summary Suspension and
the formal Complaint, reviewed it, understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with
her counsel, Marie Ellerton, Esq., concerning the nature and significance of the Order of Summary
Suspension and formal Complaint, and Respondent is fully aware concerning her rights and
defenses to the Summary Suspension and formal Complaint as well as the possible sanctions that
may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that she has violated one or more provisions of
the Medical Practice Act; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between herself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and
scheduled, and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon her; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board does not approve the
terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions
enumerated below shall not be binding and enforceable upon her except the provisions as to
disqualification of adjudicating panel members in paragraph number 8, and she will be provided
with an opportunity to defend herself against the charges against her as alleged in the Order of
Summary Suspension and formal Complaint at a regularly scheduled hearing in accordance with
all applicable laws; and,

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following

terms, covenants and conditions:


1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
State of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of
violations of the Medical Practice Act, and to impose sanctions as provided by the Medical
Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by Marie Ellerton, Esq. in this matter and has had ample
opportunity to review this agreement, the Order of Summary Suspension and formal Complaint
filed in this matter and related factual basis with said legal counsel. Respondent further covenants
and agrees that she enters into this Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants
and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly and
intelligently, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other
statutory rights that may be available to her or that may apply to her in connection with the
proceeding on the Order of Summary Suspension and formal Complaint filed herein, the defense
of said Order of Summary Suspension and formal Complaint and the adjudication of the charges
in said Order of Summary Suspension and formal Complaint, and Respondent further agrees that
the matter of the Order of Summary Suspension and formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceeding, and
without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board,
this Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall
have all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the
state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to her or that may apply to her in connection with the proceeding on the Order of
Summary Suspension and formal Complaint filed herein.

4, Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent is aware that the trier of fact, the Board,

may find a factual basis in support of the formal Complaint against Respondent. Accordingly, in


order to resolve the matter without incurring further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the Order of Summary Suspension and formal Complaint or to any other further amended
complaint, and in exchange for the waiver of the Respondent’s foregoing rights, Respondent has
entered into this Agreement, and agrees:

1. Within three business days of the adoption of this Agreement, the Board shall enter an
order lifting the summary suspension on Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of
Nevada;

2. The Board shall enter an order against Respondent finding that Respondent has engaged
in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, to wit: one count of
failing to report in writing, within 30 days, any criminal action taken or conviction obtained
against the licensee, a violation of NRS 630.306(12), and one count of obtaining, maintaining, or
renewing a license to practice medicine by an inaccurate or incomplete statement, a violation of
NRS 630.304(1);

3. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand related to the disciplinary findings in
paragraph 2 above;

4. Respondent shall continue with her participation and remain fully compliant with the
contractual terms enunciated in her monitoring agreement with the Nevada Professionals
Assistance Program, absent further order of the Board;

5. Respondent shall pay the sum of $5,436.21, the current amount of the costs incurred by
the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if
any. The costs shall be paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within six months
of the Board's acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

6. Respondent shall contact the Compliance Officer of the Board within 30 days of
the approval and acceptance of this Agreement in order to provide information regarding the most
expeditious method of contacting her;

7. Respondent agrees that if she is charged with any form of professional misconduct in

the future, this Agreement, and/or related orders, and/or records regarding her compliance, may be



admitted into evidence at a hearing regarding the alleged professional misconduct, at the sole
discretion of the IC authorizing the formal charges of professional misconduct;
8. The terms of this Agreement may be reported as allowed by law.

5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this settlement or its administration.

6. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or her counsel, if any, may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, to respond to any questions that may be addressed to counsel for the
IC,

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the



IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and
ordering that this case be closed.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and
participating in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case.
Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence
of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to
such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would

then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in



addition to that included herein for the Respondent's violation of an Order of the Board in

accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Cha’
Dated thiseLe day November of 2012.

Edward O. Cousineau, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

tf
Dated thisesdl Shay of November, 2012.

»» Veni Lea

Marie NMerton, E Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

Read and understood by:

Dated thisOol Sa: day of November, 2012.

rey ae

wv fr Arcotta, M.D.


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 30th day of

November 2012, with the final total amount of costs due of $5,436.21.

Ulesn..

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

