

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RRR SK

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 11-7546-1

Complaint Against 5 F J LE D

LYNN GREENHOUSE, M.D., MAR 12 2012
y:

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Investigative Committee (IC) of

the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the “Board’) composed of
Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Ms. Valerie Clark BSN, RHU, LUTCF and Michael J. Fischer,
M.D., by and through counsel, Lyn E. Beggs, Esq., and Lynn Greenhouse, M.D. (Respondent), by
and through her counsel Shawn K. Jones, Esq., of the law firm of Wilson | Barrows | Salyer | Jones,
as follows:

WHEREAS, on December 1, 2011, the Board’s IC filed a Complaint in the above
referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for discipline
pursuant to the Medical Practice Act (NRS Chapter 630 and NAC Chapter 630) to wit: two counts
of engaging in conduct which is in violation of a regulation of the State Board of Pharmacy as set
forth in Counts I and II of the Complaint, a violation of NRS 630.306(2)(c); one count of and one
count of administering, dispensing or prescribing any controlled substance, or any dangerous drug
to herself or others except as authorized by law as set forth in Count III of the Complaint, a
violation of NRS 630.306(3); and

WHEREAS, Respondent has received and reviewed a copy of the Complaint, understands
it, and has consulted with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of the
Complaint and Respondent is fully advised concerning her rights and defenses to the complaint as

well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the Board finds and concludes that she has

N



engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act.
Respondent has reviewed all the relevant facts and circumstances of this matter and after due
consideration and consultation with her counsel and after due consideration, while not admitting or
denying any of the allegations set forth in the Complaint, desires to resolve this matter by
agreement without any further costs and expense of providing a defense.

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between herself and the Board’s Investigative Committee, and not with the Board, but that the
Investigative Committee will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open
session at a Board meeting, appropriately noticed, and that the Investigative Committee shall
advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its
own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, Respondent and the Investigative Committee each understand and agree that
if the Board approves the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms,
covenants and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon Respondent
and the Board’s Investigative Committee; and .

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve the above-captioned case and charges brought
against Respondent by the Board’s Investigative Committee in said matter, Respondent and the

Investigative Committee hereby agree to the following terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary
proceedings pending against her without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to
the Complaint or to any amended complaints, Respondent, while not admitting or denying the
allegations set forth in the Complaint, hereby agrees a stipulated resolution in this matter is fair and
appropriate and that an order may be entered herein by the Board finding that Respondent engaged
in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act to wit: two counts of
engaging in conduct in violation of a regulation adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy as set
forth in Counts I and II of the Complaint, violations of NRS 630.306(2)(c). The Board shall

further order that Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall be suspended for a period of


oOo 4S NSN DN A


thirty-six (36) months, said suspension being stayed and Respondent being placed on probation for
a period of forty-eight (48) months subject to the following terms and conditions:

a) Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

b) Respondent shall not apply for nor hold a certificate of registration from the

Nevada State Board of Pharmacy to dispense controlled substances or dangerous drugs for

the period of probation, however this Agreement shall not bar Respondent from applying

for and maintaining a license from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) or applying for
and/or maintaining a controlled substance registration from the Nevada State Board of

Pharmacy;

c) Respondent shall complete twelve (12) hours of AMA category one continuing

medical education (CME) in addition to those hours required to maintain licensure, six

hours of which must be on the topic of ethics and the remaining six hours on the topic of
prescribing and/or dispensing controlled substances and dangerous drugs. Said CME
credits are to be completed within twelve (12) months of the adoption and acceptance of
this Agreement by the Board and which must be pre-approved by the Chairman of the

Investigative Committee.

d) Respondent shall reimburse the Board the reasonable costs and expenses incurred

in the investigation and prosecution of this case, the current amount being $1404.06, not

including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement. The costs shall be
paid to the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within ninety (90) days of the
acceptance of this Agreement by the Board.

Finally, count III of the Complaint shall be dismissed.

2. Jurisdiction. Respondent was at all times mentioned in the Complaint filed in the
above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Nevada
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations of the
Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into this

Agreement knowingly, willingly, and intelligently with the advice of above identified counsel. In


[oo a © > © 2 ~~ > > OO)

connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein,
Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently, waives all rights arising under or pursuant to
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630 and
NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply to Respondent in
connection with the proceeding regarding the Complaint filed herein, the defense of said
Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said Complaint, and Respondent further agrees
that the matter of the disciplinary action commenced by the filing of the complaint herein may be
settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further
proceeding, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by
the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and Respondent shall have all rights
arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Nevada,
NRS Chapter 630 and NRS Chapter 233B that may be available to Respondent or that may apply
to Respondent in connection with the proceeding on the complaint filed herein.

4. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. It is expressly understood that this

Agreement will only become effective if the Board approves the recommendation of the
Investigative Committee for acceptance. The Investigative Committee and counsel for the
Investigative Committee shall recommend approval of the terms, covenants and conditions
contained herein by the Board in resolution of the disciplinary proceedings pending herein
against Respondent pursuant to the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board approval of this
Agreement, counsel for the Investigative Committee may communicate directly with the Board
staff and members of the panel of the Board who would adjudicate this case if it were to go to
hearing. Respondent covenants and agrees that such contacts and communication may be made
or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel, if any, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such
contacts and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this
Agreement, the Complaint and the allegations therein, any and all evidence that may exist in
support of the Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the

complaint against Respondent. The Investigative Committee and its counsel agree that

& Ww N



Respondent and her counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed
in order to respond to any and all questions that may be addressed to the Investigative
Committee or its counsel at such meeting.

5. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves

the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the Investigative
Committee will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order approving this Settlement, Waiver
and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this
case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 1.

6. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following covenant and agreement
regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members. Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained herein and nothing
that occurs pursuant to efforts of the Investigative Committee or its counsel to seek acceptance
and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating
panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating in the
disciplinary proceedings in any role, including adjudication of the case, and Respondent further
agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

x

7. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities absent evidence of
bad faith, from any and all manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments,
executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that
Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or
entities named in this paragraph arising out of or by reason of this investigation, this disciplinary

action, this settlement or its administration, in connection with the complaint. The Investigative


1]

Committee hereby agrees to accept this Agreement in full settlement of all claims related to the
complaint, with the understanding that the final decision rests with the Board.

8. Binding Effect. Respondent covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a

binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board’s Investigative Committee,
which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

9. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

either party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents
to such jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second
Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

10. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event

an action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees.

11. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board
would then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against
Respondent in addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the
Board in accordance with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to
reimburse the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement, may subject

Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this /3* day of Abo 2012. Dated this 77% day of fesnuany seu any 2012,
q


Attorney for the Investigative Committee Wilson | Barrows | Salyer | Jones
of the Nevada State Board of Medical
Examiners

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

me WY NN


1]

(FD 2

Lynn Greenhouse, M.D. Respondent

Dated this 7“ day of fea JARY

, 2012

i)



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 9"" day of March 2012,

with the final total amount of costs due of $1,404.06.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

