

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and Case No. 12-12597-1
Complaint Against FILED
MARIA CORAZON OROZCO REGALADO, M.D., JUN =@ 2012

NEVADA STATE BOARD ¢
MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Respondent. By: Z

Nene” Nome” ree” “ee “ee” Nee “ee” ee”

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby’ entered into by and_ between the

Investigative Committee ("IC") of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (the "Board")
composed of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman, Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF,
Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and counsel for the IC, and
Maria Corazon Orozco Regalado, M.D. (Respondent), by and through counsel
L. Kristopher Rath, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on January 20, 2012, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act, ie, Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS), to wit: Count I, one count of aiding, assisting, employing or
advising, directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine
contrary to the provisions of this chapter or the regulations of the Board, a violation of
NRS 630.305(1)(e); Count II, one count of the willful failure to perform a statutory or other legal
obligation imposed upon a licensed physician, a violation of NRS 630.3065(3); Count III, one
count of the failure to report any person the licensee knows, or has reason to know, is in violation

of the provisions of this chapter or the regulations of the Board within 30 days after the date the



licensee knows or has. reason to know of the violation, a violation of
NRS 630.3062(6);

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with her counsel concerning the nature
and significance of the formal Complaint and Respondent is fully aware concerning her rights and
defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the
Board finds and concludes that she has violated one or more provisions of the
Medical Practice Act, and after due consideration concedes! that she engaged in conduct which is
in violation of the Medical Practice Act as set forth in Count III;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between herself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled,
and that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the
right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon her.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations

of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, said agreements and admissions by Respondent are not intended or made
for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court.



2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by legal counsel in this matter and has had ample opportunity to
review this Agreement, the formal Complaint filed in this matter and the related factual basis with
said legal counsel, L. Kristopher Rath, Esq. Respondent covenants and agrees that she enters into
this Agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the terms, covenants

and conditions contained herein, and the understanding that Respondent knowingly, willingly and
intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory
rights that may be available to her or that may apply to her in connection with the proceedings on
the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of said formal Complaint and the adjudication of
the charges in said formal Complaint. Respondent further agrees that the matter of the formal
Complaint herein may be settled and resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a
hearing or any further proceedings, and without the right to judicial review. In the event this
Agreement is not approved by the Board, this Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall
be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all rights arising under or pursuant to the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630,
NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to her or that may apply to
her in connection with the proceeding on the formal Complaint filed herein.

4, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against her without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees’ that the Board may issue an Order finding that
Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the

Nevada Medical Practice Act, to wit: the failure to report any person the licensee knows, or has

? All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, said agreements and admissions by Respondent are not intended or made
for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court.



reason to know, is in violation of the provisions of this chapter or the regulations of the Board
within 30 days after the date the licensee knows or has reason to know of the violation, a violation
of NRS 630.3062(6), as set forth in Count III of the formal Complaint; and ordering that:

a. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

b. Respondent shall pay a fine of $500.00 within ninety (90) days of the
Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

C. Respondent shall perform forty (40) hours of community service with the
Ad Hoc Task Force on Unlicensed Healthcare within six (6) months of the Board's acceptance and
approval of this Agreement’;

d. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of $900.63,
the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this matter,
along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within ninety (90) days of the Board’s acceptance and

approval of this Agreement;

e. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law; and,
f. The Board shall dismiss Counts I and II of the formal Complaint.
5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

herself, her executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of

Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and

‘employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all

manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the

? Respondent may commence this community service at any time, including prior to the Board’s
approval of this Agreement. Should the Board approve this Agreement, any community service
hours completed prior to that approval will count toward the forty (40) required hours.




Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part or on the part of her
counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or her counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s Order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and
ordering that this case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 4.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further

agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.



9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, she consents to such
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada in and for the County of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to comply with terms. In the event the Board enters its Order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would
then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in
addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an Order of the Board in accordance
with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this LY day of la / 2012. Dated this sary day of , 2012.
aA By: A) [an4-

radley O. Van Ry, Esq. L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Maria Corazon Orozko Regalado, M.D., Respondent



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the gt day of June

2012, with the final total amount of costs due of $900.63.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

