OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



ORIGINAL ©

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

kek ARES

In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 12-20171-1
Complaint Against )
FILED
RALPH TINGHAN HO, M.D., ) JAN 2.9 99”
) NEVADA S = vom
TATE BOAR M or
Respondent. ay: MEDICAL Exe _

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, composed
at the time of filing of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Chairman,
Valerie J. Clark, BSN, RHU, LUTCF, Member, and Michael J. Fischer, M.D., Member, by and
through Bradley O. Van Ry, Deputy General Counsel, having a reasonable basis to believe that
Ralph Tinghan Ho, M.D., hereinafter referred to as “Respondent”, has violated the provisions of
NRS Chapter 630, hereby issues its formal Complaint, stating the Investigative Committee's
charges and allegations, as follows:

1. Respondent, is currently licensed in active status (License No. 9766), and has been
so licensed since April 30, 2001 by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.

2. Respondent is currently licensed to practice medicine, and was so licensed at the
time of the incident complained of in this matter, in the state of North Dakota.

3. On or about July 12, 2011, ‘the Respondent and __ the
North Dakota Board of Medical Examiners entered into a Stipulation (settlement agreement)
where Respondent's medical license was suspended for a period of one (1) year stayed under the
following conditions:

HI!

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



4, Respondent shall be required to obtain an alcohol evaluation from an approved
facility and to provide a report to the Board. Respondent shall comply with any recommendations
should a concern be noted.

5. Respondent shall reimburse the North Dakota State Board of Medical Examiners
for all reasonable costs expended for the investigation and prosecution of this action. This amount
shall be due within sixty (60) days from the date of the Board's order. See Exhibit 1.

6. If Respondent shall fail, neglect or refuse to fully comply with any of the terms,
provisions or conditions herein, the license of the respondent to practice medicine in the
State of North Dakota shall be revoked in accordance with the law.

7. Furthermore, Respondent omitted, failed and/or refused to notify the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners of the North Dakota action against his medical license
in a timely manner as required by statute.

Count}

8. All of the above allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if
fully set forth herein.

9. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(3) provides that any disciplinary action,
including, without limitation, the revocation, suspension, modification or limitation of a license to
practice any type of medicine, taken by another state is grounds for initiating discipline against a
licensee.

10. The disciplinary action, evaluation, report to the North Dakota Board, and costs,
related to Respondent's license to practice medicine in the state of North Dakota and therefore
constitutes a violation of the provisions of Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.301(3).

11. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes.

Count I
12. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set

forth herein.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



13. Nevada Revised Statute Section 630.306(11) provides that the failure by a licensee
to report in writing, within 30 days, any disciplinary action taken against the licensee by another
state is grounds for initiating discipline against a licensee.

14. The stipulation of Respondent and the North Dakota Board of Medical Examiners
constituted an action against Respondent that required disclosure in writing to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners as provided in Section 630.352 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

1. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in Section 630.339(2) of the Nevada Revised Statutes within twenty (20) days of
service of the Complaint;

2. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS §630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions it
agrees upon to impose if it finds and concludes that there has been a violation or violations of the
Medical Practice Act (Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 630) committed by Respondent;

4. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of facts, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and,

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further
action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this 77 * day of January, 2012.
INVESTIGATIVE
NEV.

Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq.
Deputy General Counsel and Attorney for the Investigative Committee

TTEE OF THE
OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )

> SS.
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada
State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint, and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, that he
believes the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true,

accurate, and correct.

Dated this a” aay of Ty Pras , 2012.

Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and
that on 30" day of January 2012; I served a file copy of the COMPLAINT, Settlement Letter &

Fingerprint information, via USPS e-certified mail to the following:

Ralph Tinghan Ho, M.D.
6000 Cartier Dr.
Reno, NV 89511-6562

Dated this 30" day of January 2012.
SL Den hne

Angelia L. Donohoe
Legal Assistant

EXHIBIT

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA

North Dakota Board of Medical )
Lixaminers - Investigative Panel A, )
Complainant, )
Vs. ) STIPULATION
Ralph t. Plo MAD. }
Respondent. )

WHEREAS, the North Dakota State Board of Medical Examiners (hercinatter “the Board”)
issued a Complaint secking to revoke the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of
North Dakota, or other appropriate sanction, pursuant (o N.D.C.C. § 43-17-30.1; N.D.C.C. § 43-17-
31 (6); and

WIIEREAS. the Respondent admits service of the Summons and Complaint and agrees that
the facts alleged in the Complaint of Investigative Panel A dated June 21" 2011, are true and are
grounds for disciplinary action by the North Dakota Board of Medical Examiners and that the terms

of this Stipulation are appropriate;

THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY agreed by and between the parties to this action and the North

Dakota State Board of Medical Examiners:

i. The Respondent hereby waives any procedural irregularity herein and his right to

hearing on the Complaint now pending in this action;
oo)

6.

Respondent's medical license shall be suspended fora period of (1) year stayed under
the following conditions:

Respondent shall be required to obtain an alcohol evaluation from an approved
facility and to provide a report to the Board, Respondents shall comply with any
recommendations should a concem be noted.

Respondent shall reimburse the North Dakota State Board of Medical Examiners for
all reasonable costs expended for the investigation and prosceution of this aehon
This amount shall be due within sixty (60) days front the date of the Board's Order.
The Board shall provide written notice of all amounts due within thirty (30) day's
from the date of the Board’s Order.

If Respondent shall fail, neglect, or refuse to fully comply with any of the terms,
provisions. or conditions herein, the license of the respondent to practice medicine
in the State of North Dakota shall be revoked in accordance with the law,

In the event the Board. in its discretion, docs not approve this settlement, this
Stipulation is withdrawn and shall be of no evidentiary value and shall not be relied
upon nor introduced in any disciplinary action by either party hereto except that
Respondent agrees that should the Board reject this Stipulation, and if this case
proceeds to hearing, Respondent will assert no claim that the Board was prejudiced
by its review and discussion of this Stipulation or of any records relating hereto.
This agreement for the disposition of the above-entitled contested case is a matter of
public record and the obligations of the Board with respect thereto shall be governed

by the laws of North Dakota and current Board policy.
It.

12.

Dated this

All parties hereto recognize that Board representatives who have engaged in
discussions relative to an agreed disposition of this matter can only make
recommendations to the North Dakota State Board of Medical Examiners, which
recommendation can inno way be considered as binding upon the full membership
of the Board who would ultimately decide the pending contested case. and this
agreement is subject to acceptance by the fall membership of the Board.
Respondent understands that he has the right and hits been afforded the opportunits
to have this agreement reviewed by his atlorneys. and that in the event he chooses to
execute this document without taking the opportunity to avail himself of this right.
such failure shall be deemed {o be a waiver of such right.

Respondent specifically waives any claim that any disclosures made to the full
membership of the Board for the purposes of the consideration of this agreement
have prejudiced his rights to a fair and impartial hearing in the event this agreement
is not accepted by the full Board and if further proceedings ensue.

Respondent further agrees that there have been no inducements, threats or promises
made in order to obtain his entry into this agreement.

The parties further agree that all statements contained herein are based upon the facts

known to the Board on the date of execution of this agreement.

Sol

4 day of Jyne; 2011.

Ralph T. o, M.D.
“oN

Dated this _ f gv day of Jefe, 2011.

NORTH DAKOTA STATE BOARD
SDACAL EXAMINERS

JOHN M. OLSOX (1D#03053)

SPECIAL ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.

418 1. Broadway Avenuc Suite 9

Bismarck, ND 58501

Phone: (7OL) 222-3485

Fax: (701) 222-3485

E-mail: o/sonpe@uiudconelwork.com

Attorney for: North Dakota State Board of Medical
Examiners - Investigative Panel A

