oOo na DD

No}

1]

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In The Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 12-27088-1
Complaint Against )
FILED
SAMUEL BECK, MLD., ) SEP 11 20:2
) NEVADA STATE BO :
) . “ oi teen scree tin ~

SETTLEMENT, WAIVER AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

(IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Chairman, Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Member, and
Donna A. Ruthe, Member, in the above-captioned matter, by and through its counsel,
Bradley O. Van Ry, Esq., Board General Counsel, and Samuel Beck, M.D. (Respondent), by and
through his counsel, Edward J. Lemons, Esq., as follows:

WHEREAS, on May 31, 2012, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-referenced matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act, ie. Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS), to wit: Count I, one count of advertising the practice of medicine
in a false, deceptive or misleading manner, a violation of NRS  630.304(2),
NRS 630.306(2)(b) and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) 630.190(1)(e); Count II, one count of
engaging in any conduct which is intended to deceive, a _ violation of
NRS 630.306(2)(a); Count III, one count of engaging in conduct that brings the medical profession
into disrepute, a violation of NRS 630.301(9); Count IV, one count of administering, dispensing or
prescribing any controlled substance to others except as authorized by law, a violation of
NRS 630.306(3), NRS 639.230, 639.2328, 639.23288, and NAC 639.426-434;





WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his counsel concerning the nature
and significance of the formal Complaint. Respondent is fully aware concerning his rights and
defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the
Board finds and concludes that he has violated one or more provisions of the
Medical Practice Act, and after due consideration, concedes that he engaged in conduct which is in
violation of the Medical Practice Act as set forth in Count IV;

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement is entered into by
and between himself and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but that the IC will present this
Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting duly noticed and scheduled.
Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval of this Agreement by the Board, but
that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this
Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him.

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations
of the Medical Practice Act (NRS 630), and to impose sanctions as provided by the Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent is represented by legal counsel in this matter and has had ample opportunity to
review this Agreement, the formal Complaint filed in this matter and the related factual basis with
said legal counsel, Edward J. Lemons, Esq. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into

this Agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently.

oOo Nt SN

\o


3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent waives all rights in connection with this

Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding
that Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant
to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, NRS Chapter 630,
NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of
said formal Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this
Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of
Nevada, NRS Chapter 630, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be
available to him or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the formal
Complaint filed herein.

4, Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the matter of these disciplinary

proceedings pending against him without any further costs and expense of providing a defense to the
formal Complaint, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an Order finding that
Respondent has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), and agrees that:

a. The Board may find a violation of the MPA against Respondent for his
numerous internet purchases of Dysport from Medica Depot and RxPad that violated related
pharmacy statutes and regulations pertaining to Canadian pharmacies and internet pharmacies for
selling and distributing controlled substances in the state of Nevada, a violation of
NRS 630.306(3), as set forth in Count IV of the formal Complaint;

b. Respondent shall be issued a public reprimand;

c. Respondent shall complete twelve (12) hours of Continuing Medical

Education (CME) regarding the subject of Ethics, or other medically related subject matter, and


\7

which CMEs are to be approved by the IC chairman in advance of their accomplishment.
Attendance shall be in-person for six (6) hours and the remaining six (6) hours may be on-line.
These CME’s are to be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon
Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and within one (1) year of the
Board's acceptance and approval of this Agreement;

d. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the sum of
$1,337.29, the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this
matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners within thirty (30) days of the Board’s acceptance and

approval of this Agreement;

€. Counts I, II and III of the Complaint shall be dismissed; and,
f. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.
5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration.

6. Procedure of Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or

conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part or on the part of his

o Oo SD


counsel until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the
formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal
Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its
counsel.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement, ordering full compliance with the terms herein and
ordering that this case be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 4.

8. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. Providing this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent
and the Board’s IC, which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event either

party is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such

Oo CO SN


jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in_ the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe.

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event an

action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply With Terms. In the event the Board enters its order approving

this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with the terms recited herein, the Board would
then have grounds, after notice and a hearing, to take disciplinary action against Respondent in
addition to that included herein for the subject's violation of an order of the Board in accordance
with NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reimburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Pe
Dated this //” SP say of Less , 2012. Dated this }4r day of Ausua , 2012.

pan

Oy alo O. Van Ry, Esq. Edward J. Lemons, Esq.
Attorney for the Investigative Committee Attorney for Reggondent
UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Samuel Beck, M.D., Respondent

N



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement, Waiver and Consent Agreement is
approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of

September 2012, with the final total amount of costs due of $1,337.29.

Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

