OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559




iW

Z3



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

RKREEREKS

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 18-10032-1

FILED

Complaint Against
MARYANNE D. PHILLIPS, M.D., JUN 10 2019
Respondent. RS

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Donald K. White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Maryanne D. Phillips, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed Physician in
Nevada, assisted by her attorney, Kenneth E. Hogan, Esq., of the law firm of Hogan Hulet PLLC,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following: !

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed (License No. 7635) in active status,
with conditions, by the Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to
practice medicine in Nevada since December 21, 1995.

2. On February 9, 2018, in Case No. 18-10032-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges: Count I, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(1) (Engaging in Conduct Intended to
Deceive); Count II, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(p) (Engaging in Unsafe or Unprofessional

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Ll

yar


Conduct); Count III, violation of NRS 630.3062(2) (Altering Medical Records); Count IV,
violation of NRS 630.3062(2) (Altering Medical Records); Count V, violation of NRS 630.301(6)
(Disruptive Behavior That Interferes With Patient Care or Has an Adverse Impact on the Quality
of Patient Care); Count VI, violation of NRS 630.301(9) (Engaging in Conduct That Brings the
Medical Profession Into Disrepute); Count VII, violation of NRS 630.304(6) (Attempting by Way
of Intimidation, Coercion or Deception, to Obtain or Retain a Patient or to Discourage the Use of a
Second Opinion); Count VIII, violation of NRS 630.305(1)(a) (Receiving From Any Person
Compensation Which is Intended or Tends to Influence the Physician’s Objective Evaluation or
Treatment of a Patient); Count [X, violation of NRS 630.3062(4) (Failure to Make the Medical
Records of a Patient Available for Inspection and Copying as Provided in NRS 629.061); and
Count X, violation of NRS 630.3065(2)(a) (Failure to Comply With Order of the Board or
Committee Designated by the Board to Investigate a Complaint).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), applicable to certain
regulatory bodies, which is contained in NRS Chapters 233B and 622A. These rights include the right
to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her
own expense, in the preparation and presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of
law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s

order, if the decision is adverse to her.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559







6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon her and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a

physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation bw Counsel/Knowing. Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3: Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559






with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that
may apply to her in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges Respondent is
not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit. Respondent is
agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential subsequent litigation.
Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has evidence, witnesses, expert
witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the Complaint, but for the purposes of
resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence,
witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to-the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

A. Respondent admits to Count IV, violation of NRS 630.3062(2) (Altering Medical
Records); Count IX, violation of NRS 630.3062(4) (Failure to Make the Medical Records of a
Patient Available for Inspection and Copying as Provided in NRS 629.061); and Count X,
violation of NRS 630.3065(2)(a) (Failure to Comply With Order of the Board or Committee
Designated by the Board to Investigate a Complaint).

B. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada shall be revoked

for a period of one year, with the revocation to be immediately stayed.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



Zi


Cc. Respondent’s license shall be subject to a term of probation for a period of time not
to exceed thirty-six (36) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement (Probationary Period). Respondent must complete the following terms and
conditions within the Probationary Period and demonstrate compliance to the good faith
satisfaction of the Board within thirty-six (36) months, including but not limited to, payment in
full of the Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000.00) stated as a condition below in C(2), and at that
time she may petition the Board to lift the probationary status of her license,. If Respondent fails
to demonstrate compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement within thirty-six (36)
months, or otherwise violates the terms of this Agreement or the Medical Practice Act, then the IC
shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada
pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on immediate revocation of her license, which hearing
will be duly noticed. The following terms and conditions shall apply during Respondent’s
probationary period:

(1) Respondent shall complete the University of San Diego, Physician Assessment and
Competency Evaluation Program (PACE), Competency Assessment, and, if
recommended by PACE, the Fitness For Duty (FFD) evaluation, all at Respondent’s
expense, and pass all of the above to the satisfaction of the Board;

(2) Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within thirty (30) months of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being Fifteen
Thousand Dollars ($15,000.00), not including any costs that may be necessary to
finalize this Agreement. An initial payment of $500.00 will be due within thirty (30)
calendar days of the Board’s approval of this Agreement. Based on Respondent’s
current financial circumstances, payment of $500.00 per month will be due on the first
day of the month beginning on July 1, 2019, through December 1, 2021, and, if
necessary, the first day of each month thereafter until satisfied in full.

(3) Respondent shall take twenty two and one half (22.5) hours of continuing medical

education (CME) related to the University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559





yA |


(UNRMED) Best Practices and Tools for Prescribing Controlled Substances within
twelve (12) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of
this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME
requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement
prior to their completion and are at Respondent’s expense.

(4) Respondent agrees to perform one hundred (100) hours of community service at a
nonprofit entity, having a medical nexus and without compensation, in a manner and
capacity mutually and reasonably agreed to by Respondent and the Board, and
approved by the Board in advance of its completion, within six months of the
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

(5) During the probationary period, Respondent shall not supervise any Physician
Assistant, or collaborate with any Advanced Practice Registered Nurse.

(6) During the probationary period, Respondent shall submit to random and unannounced
medical records audits performed by an investigator with the Board.

(7) During the probationary period, Respondent shall successfully complete all
requirements and comply with all orders and conditions, past or future, of the Board,
specifically including but not limited to, the Board’s Order issued on December 8,
2017, in its Cases Numbered 12-10032-1 and 14-10032-1.

D. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required

by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

RK. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.
F, The remaining counts of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.
6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to

information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



is




Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

73 Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and the remaining counts of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement

and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that she shall not seek to disqualify
any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


ire!

iff


Lid

Pfs


aa)

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Af


yy

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this / day of fy / 2019.
OE

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVA E BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

nald K. White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this day of , 2019.

Hogan Hulet PLLC

By: ie A
Kenneth E. Hogan, Esq.,
Attorney, for Respondent

Dated this day of , 2019.

fo

Maryanne D. Phillips, M.D., Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7th day of June, 2019, with the final total

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

amount of costs due of $15,000.00.

