OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
€775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

ke EEX

In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case No. 18-19369-01

Against FI LE D

CHRISTOPHER SEUNG CHOI, M.D., DEC - 9 2019
NEVADA STATE BOARD GF

Respondent. ew EXAMINERS
By: :

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Jasmine K. Mehta, Esq., Deputy Executive Director for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Christopher Seung Choi, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attomey, Eric K. Stryker, Esq., of the law firm of
Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman & Dicker LLP, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) based on the following:'

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). His license was originally

issued on September 15, 2000 (License No. 9589).
2. On September le, 2019, in Case No. 18-19369-01, the IC filed a formal First
Amended Complaint (First Amended Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical

Practice Act. Specifically, the First Amended Complaint alleges the sole count of violating

Hl

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any stale or

federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter,

l

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) — violation of a standard of practice established by regulation (NAC 630.210 -
failure to timely seek consultation with another provider of health care (Count 1).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the First Amended Complaint, has
reviewed and understands the First Amended Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult
with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of the First Amended Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the First Amended Complaint. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution,
the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Laie (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapters 233B and 622A. These rights include the right toa formal hearing on the
allegations in the First Amended Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own
expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the
witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order
reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the
decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the aubtic iby
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medica) Examiners
$600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the }
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the First Amended Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following

terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the First Amended

Complaint has been, a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing _and_Intelligent_Agrecment.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

2 Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the First
Amended Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the First Amended Complaint,
adjudication of the allegations set forth in the First Amended Complaint, and imposition of any
disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board, Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the
allegations of the First Amended Complaint as set out by this Agreement, without a hearing or any

further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

Ml

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(77S) 688-2559


Sn ee

Lg

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the First Amended Complaint remain unproven.

Respondent acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC
acknowledges Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the First
Amended Complaint have merit and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the
costs of hearing and potential subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to
proceed to hearing, he has evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the
counts/claims alleged in the First Amended Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the
matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses,
expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the First Amended Complaint

pending against Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding
that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice
Act. Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to the sole count of the First Amended Complaint, violation of
NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) — violation of a standard of practice established by regulation (NAC 630.210 —
failure to timely seek consultation with another provider of health care).

b. Respondent shall pay a fine of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) within sixty (60)
days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of this matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement, the current amount being $20,250.00, not including any costs that may be

necessary to finalize this Agreement.

d. Respondent shall complete ten (10) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
related to the subject matter of geriatric medicine within six (6) months from the date of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned ten (10) hours

of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

i)



Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board
prior to their completion.

e. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank,

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.

vie Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the First Amended Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval
and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the First Amended
Complaint and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC
and its counsel agree that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board

meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevads 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


So CoO ~»l


addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and all remaining claims arising out of the First Amended Complaint shall be dismissed with
prejudice.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the First Amended Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall
not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice

medicine in Nevada, if any, pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



ae


noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines,

costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which

may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection

efforts available.

Dated this lle day of 26g 7 , 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

Y

Jasmine K. Mehta, ESq., Deputy Executive Director
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

a t\
Dated this [S es of 2” TOANFH019.

WILSON ELSER MOSKOWITZ EDELMAN & DICKER

LLP we
ee Stryker, Esq.

Attorneys for Respondent


Dated this {4 _ day of Sepoevees2019

(eee a

Christopher Seung Choi, M.D., Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521

(775) 688-2559



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (18-19369-01) is approved
and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6'" day of December, 2019,

with the final total amount of costs due of $20,250.00.

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

