OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA



In the Matter of Charges and Complaint Case Nos. 18-29352-1

Against 18-29352-2
DEVENDRAKUMAR I. PATEL, M.D., 18-29352-3 FI LE D
Respondent. SEP - § 201e

NEVADA STATE BOAR

L. EXAMINE)

ae
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT Se 5 Sl

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Devendrakumar I. Patel, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attorney, Brent Vogel, Esq., of the law firm” of
Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement)
based on the following:

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in inactive status by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). His license was originally
issued on July 23, 2004 (License No. 11068).

2. On February |, 2018, in Case No. 18-29352-1, the IC filed a formal First Amended
Complaint (Complaint One) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act.
Specifically, Complaint One alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I). Also

on February |, 2018, in Case No. 18-29352-2, the IC filed a formal First Amended Complaint

all agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of these matters and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

NO





(Complaint Two) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically,
Complaint Two alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(4), Malpractice (Count I), one (1) violation
of NRS 630.301(7), Violating Patient’s Trust for Financial Gain (Count II), and one (1) violation of
NRS 630.301(8), Failure to Offer Appropriate Procedures for Financial Benefit (Count III). On
December 11, 2018, in Case No. 18-29352-3, the IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint Three)
charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, Complaint Three alleges
one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(!)(c), Illegal Dispensing of Controlled Substances (Count I), one
(1) violation of NRS 630.306(1)(p), Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct (Count II), and one (1)
violation of NRS 630.301(9), Disreputable Conduct (Count HI), Complaints One, Two and Three are
hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Complaints.”

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaints, has reviewed and
understands the Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaints.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding these administrative matters, and
of his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in these administrative matters as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s

license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of

to

L.

ICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSE


OFI

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521


(775) 688-

tO

1%)

Ww


~J

administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, 1.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

I. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaints has been,

a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

Ze Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

RA Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with these administrative matters. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently
waives all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the

Medical Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him

bo

= |
A he

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSIE


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

or that may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the
Complaints filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the
allegations set forth in the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions
ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as
set out by this Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to
judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
that Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have
merit and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts that if these matters were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving these matters and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5, Consent to Entry of Order, In order to resolve this Complaints pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count I of Complaint Three, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(c),
Illegal Dispensing of Controlled Substances.

b. Respondent’s license shall be immediately revoked. Pursuant to
NRS 622A.410(1), Respondent may not apply for reinstatement of his medical license for a period
of three (3) years from the date of the Board’s acceptance of this Agreement as an Order of the

Board.

=m |
an BF

RAL COUNSI

ENE

a
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

i)

ies)

i7
20)


C. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matters, which imposition of costs and expenses shall be
effective upon the Board's acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current
amount being $10,103.88, not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this
Agreement. This Board order for the payment of costs shall be immediately stayed, until which
time as Respondent reapplies for licensure, at which time, Respondent is ordered to pay the
aforementioned costs and fees within sixty (60) days.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required

by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

é. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.
f. The remaining counts of the Complaints, and any other claims arising therefrom,

shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entitics named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption

of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

on

RAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENE

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 8952}

(775) 688-2559



adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to these matters. The IC and its counsel
agree that Respondent and/or Counsel for the Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where
this Agreement is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to
the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the cases shall be
closed and all remaining claims arising out of the Complaints shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seck the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaints and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. [If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. ‘The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seck enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such

jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,

State of Nevada, Washoe County.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

to

CoO



12, Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

ra, Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


fi


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(175) 688-2559





Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection

efforts available.

Dated this _ [0 _day of Sv Ly — , 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Bye ual - pao
Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

a
Dated this | day of « uly. , 2019.
Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP

Breit Vogel, %&
Attorneys for’Respondent
Dated this = dayof  ————si«sC 20119.

-Devendrakumar I. Patel, M.D., Respondent

i || Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a
2 || condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative collection
3 || efforts available.

4 Dated this day of , 2019,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

OFBICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

i NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
8 By:
9 Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee
E 12
=a rr Dated this day of , 2019.
= Py = ‘2 Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP
° 3
BEZE
gO.
3 16 By: a
: Brent Vogel, Esq.
Zz 1? Attomeys for Respondent
19 Datedthis _—s_—s day off . 2019.

Devendrakumar I. Patel, M.D., Respondent

LO/1L0 399d ALS | INI0 ATIAV4 O73 SELelieGi2 WHOS LL 6102/20/20

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521

(775) 688-2559



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case Numbers 18-29352-
1, 18-29352-2, 18-29352-3) is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical

Examiners on the 6" day of September 2019, with the final total amount of costs due of

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

$10,103.88.

