Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

il

BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No.. 18-33803-1
Complaint Against a F ILED
MANE SULAIMAN SHAH,M.D., SEP - 6 2019

NEVADA S re
Respondent. MEDICAANAMINERS

By: (ra geen OOO
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Donald K. White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Mane Sulaiman Shah, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada,
by and through his counsel, John A. Hunt, Esq., hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) based on the following:!

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in active status by the Board,
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada
since July 1, 2008 (License No. 12786).

2, On January 10, 2019, in Case No. 18-33803-1, the IC filed a formal First Amended
Complaint (First Amended Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act.
Specifically, this First Amended Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(1), Conviction
HT]

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or

any credentialing or privileges matter.

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

em Wi bd


of a Felony Relating to the Practice of Medicine. On January 29, 2019, Respondent filed an

Answer to the First Amended Complaint.

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.
4, Respondent was properly served with a copy of the First Amended Complaint, has

reviewed and understands the First Amended Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult
with competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of the First Amended Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the First Amended Complaint. Specifically,
Respondent has certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution,
the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA) applicable to
certain regulatory bodies, which is contained in NRS Chapters 233B and 622A. These rights include
the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the First Amended Complaint, the right to
representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the
right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written
findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to
judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners



Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the

matters with regard to the First Amended Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the

following terms and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the First Amended
Complaint has been, a physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing _and_Intelligent_Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this matter
materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this Agreement,
that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent agrees that he
knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after full consultation with and
the assistance of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the First
Amended Complaint filed in this matter, including defense of the First Amended Complaint,
adjudication of the allegations set forth in the First Amended Complaint, and imposition of any
disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the
allegations of the First Amended Complaint as set out by this Agreement, without a hearing or any
further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

/T1

3 0f 8

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL




4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges Respondent is
not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the First Amended Complaint have merit.
Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of a hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the First
Amended Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose,
Respondent waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in
order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this First Amended Complaint
pending against Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding
that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice
Act. Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to the sole count of a Conviction of a Felony Relating to the
Practice of Medicine (a violation of NRS 630.301(1)) stemming from Respondent’s criminal case
C-13-292772-1, District Court, Clark County, Nevada.

b. Respondent’s license shall be subject to a term of probation (Probationary Period)
upon the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement for an indeterminate
period of time, not to exceed sixty (60) months. Respondent may petition the Board to lift the
probationary status and the conditions placed upon his license if or when he successfully
completes his probationary term for his underlying criminal conviction in case C-13-292772-1.
The following terms and conditions shall apply during Respondent’s Probationary Period:

(1) Respondent must be supervised at all times during any and all interactions with
all female patients, with a formal monitoring agreement with approved and identified

monitors, throughout the entire Probationary Period or until further order of the Board.


9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


(2) Respondent shall successfully complete all requirements as established by the
Eighth Judicial District Court and the Nevada Division of Parole and Probation for his
underlying criminal conviction in case C-13-292772-1.

(3) Respondent agrees to abstain from the personal use or possession of controlled
substances and prescription drugs, unless such controlled substance or prescription drug is
lawfully prescribed to Respondent for a current bona fide illness or condition by a licensed
practitioner. Respondent shall abstain from the use of any and all other mood-altering
substances for any other purpose than the purpose for which the substance is intended.

(4) Respondent shall complete all terms and conditions of any criminal sanctions
incurred before or during the period of this Agreement, including probation or parole, and
if, or when, the Nevada Division of Parole and Probation terminates its probationary
period of Respondent, then Respondent can petition the Board for a termination of the
Board’s Probationary Period. Respondent agrees that if he fails to complete his criminal
probation or is dishonorably discharged from criminal probation, the IC shall be authorized
to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada pending an
Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.

C. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of this matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement, the current amount being $426.71, not including any costs that may be
necessary to finalize this Agreement.

d. - Respondent shall pay a fine of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00)
within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

e. Respondent shall complete eight (8) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
related to the subject matter of professional boundaries within six (6) months from the date of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned eight (8) hours
of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent

as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their

completion.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL




f. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

g. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this First Amended Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval
and adoption of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff
and the adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the First Amended
Complaint and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC
and its counsel agree that Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is

discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s

counsel.


gm
ase
PaO
ak
SZ
rary
o¢&
S&

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed.

9. Effect_of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this First Amended Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against
Respondent, including adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall
not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


ai


Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid
as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to any civil and administrative
collection efforts available.

Dated this 2% day of Ou _, 2019.

By: “Tf

Donald’ KZ White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attamey for the Investigative Committee

th ad
Dated thisCQ0/ "day of | /077 C 2019.
CLARK HILL RL fe ZL

John A. Hunt, Esq.
Attorney for Respondent

Dated this>%74 day of Le Zz , 2019.

How LAE _

Mane Sulaiman Shah, M.D., Respondent


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (Case Numbers
18-33803-1) is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6m

day of September 2019, with the final total amofht of costs due of $429.71.
Dhikty Rekadoehy ‘)

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

