OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 19-12899-1
Complaint Against FI LE D
RONALD HOPE FOOTE, M.D., SEP - § 2nie

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOAS > oF

MEDIGAL EXAM wets
By: .

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Ronald Hope Foote, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed Physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attorney, L. Kristopher Rath, Esq., of the law firm of Hutchison & Steffen, PLLC,
hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:!

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor formerly licensed (License No. 9240) by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). Respondent was originally
licensed to practice medicine in Nevada on December 4, 1999, His license expired June 30, 2019.

2. On August __, 2019, in Case No. 19-12899-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges: Count I, violation of NRS 630.301(9) (Disreputable Conduct); Count II,
violation of NRS 630.306(1)(c) (Engaging in Conduct That Violated Pharmacy Board
Regulations); Count Il, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of Standards of Practice);

Tan agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Count IV, violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records);
Count V, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of Standards of Practice); Count VI,
violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records); Count VII,
violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of Standards of Practice); Count VII, violation of
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the

Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.c., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent was all times relevant to the Complaint a physician
licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the
Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this

Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(1758) 688-2559


4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering

into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaint remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. Jn order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to all Counts, I through VIII, of the Complaint.

b. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada shall be revoked
with the revocation to be immediately stayed. Respondent shall reinstate his license, providing all
regularly required documentation and paying all required fees, by June 30, 2020, at which time,
Respondent’s license shall be placed in “inactive” status until successful completion of the terms
set forth in Paragraph C immediately following.

c. Respondent’s license shall be subject to revocation upon a term of probation for a
period of sixty (60) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement (Probationary Period). Respondent must complete the following terms and conditions
within the Probationary Period and demonstrate compliance to the good faith satisfaction of the
Board within sixty (60) months, or before Respondent resumes the practice of medicine in Nevada
during this probationary period, whichever is first. If Respondent fails to demonstrate compliance

with the terms and conditions of this Agreement within sixty (60) months, or otherwise violates

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

2/

the terms of this Agreement or the Medical Practice Act, then the IC shall be authorized to
immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada, pending a duly noticed
Order To Show Cause Hearing to take place within sixty (60) days of the suspension. If the
violation of this Agreement or the MPA is proved after such hearing, pursuant to the express terms
of this Agreement, the stay of revocation shall be lifted, and Respondent’s license shall be
revoked. In such case, pursuant to NRS 622A.410(1), Respondent may not apply for
reinstatement of his medical license for a period of five (5) years from the date of the Board’s
final order of revocation. If Respondent successfully completes the Probationary Period,
demonstrating compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and otherwise
fulfilling all terms of this Agreement, and not otherwise committing any new violations of the
Medical Practice Act, then, at that time, the order of revocation and probation shall be terminated.
The following terms and conditions shall apply during Respondent’s Probationary Period:

(1) Respondent shall complete the University of San Diego, Physician Assessment and
Competency Evaluation Program (PACE), Competency Assessment, and, if
recommended by PACE, the Fitness For Duty (FFD) evaluation, and pass all of the
above to the satisfaction of the Board;

(2) Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within one-hundred eighty (180) days of
the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount
being $7,628.22, not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this
Agreement.

(3) Respondent shall take twenty (20) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
related to best practices in the prescribing of controlled substances within three (3)
months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME
requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the State of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement

prior to their completion.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(778) 688-2559



(4) Respondent shall pay a fine of $500 per count admitted to hereby, consisting of eight
(8) counts, for a total of $4,000, within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement.

(5) Respondent shall comply with and complete all terms and conditions of any criminal
sanctions incurred before or during the period of this agreement, specifically including
but not limited to Eighth Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Case No. C-18-
335993-1, including probation or parole, including full compliance with and successful
completion of the all terms of that suspension of sentence and probation imposed in
that case pursuant to NRS 453.3363.

(6) Within thirty G0) days of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement, Respondent shall enter into an agreement with and comply with all
recovery and monitoring activities of the Nevada Professional’s Assistance Program
(NPAP) for at least seven (7) years, which agreement with NPAP shall include a
monitoring agreement that includes toxicology monitoring, behavioral monitoring,
mutual help group attendance monitoring, and treatment monitoring, as directed by
NPAP. During this seven-year period, Respondent shall completely abstain from all
alcohol, controlled substances or dangerous drugs, except those prescribed by a
physician other than himself for a bona fide medical purpose. After that seven-year
period, Respondent may petition the Board for discontinuance of NPAP participation.

(7) During the probationary period, Respondent shall not supervise or formally agree to
supervise any physician assistant, and shall not formally agree to supervise or enter
into a collaboration agreement with an advanced practice registered nurse.

(8) Respondent’s license to practice medicine shall remain inactive for at least one (1)
year from the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.
Thereafter, but before the expiration of the Probationary Period, and before
Respondent resumes the practice of medicine in Nevada during this Probationary
Period, whichever is first, Respondent shall complete an application for a change of

status to “Active,” and petition the Board to allow him to resume the practice of

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



medicine, which application the Board shall consider in good faith. Upon such
application, Respondent shall appear before the Board at a public meeting and
demonstrate current compliance with all the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Provided that Respondent has fulfilled, or is in current and complete compliance with,
all the aforementioned terms and conditions as set for in this subsection C, and
committed no new violations of the Medical Practice Act from the date of this
Agreement, and there exist at the time of his application no pending formal complaints
or disciplinary actions against Respondent, and Respondent otherwise fulfills the
requirements set forth in NRS 630.255 to the satisfaction of the Board, Respondent’s
application may be granted in good faith and his license returned to “active” status.
d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.
€. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.
f. All other claims arising from Board Investigative Cases Nos. 14-12899, 17-17118
and 17-17580 shall be dismissed with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

ai


7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s
counsel.

8. [effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and the remaining counts of the Complaint, if any, shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9, Lffect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

al


11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on immediate revocation of his
license, which will be duly noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including
failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an
order of the Board, which may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against
Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board
for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil
collection efforts.

HT]

/T/

/Tl

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


Dated this vA day of fruc vet , 2019,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: x

Aaron Bart Fricke; #sq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this "7 day of Aug nde, 2019.

HUTCHISON & STEFFEN, PLLC

L. Kristopher Rath, Esq.,
Attorneys for Respondent

ft,
Dated this 7 day of Ap , 2019.

Ronald Hope Foote, MD., Respondent


Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6th day of September, 2019, with the

D hati olor

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

final total amount of costs due of $7,628.22.

