Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

Kwek KK *

In the Matter of Charges and

Case No. 19-12263-1

Complaint Against FT LE 'D)
HUGH ARUTHUR BURT, MLD., JUL 18 2019
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF~
ME L EXAM

Respondent. By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel and attorney for the IC, having a
reasonable basis to believe that Hugh Arthur Burt, M.D. (Respondent), violated the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s charges and
allegations as follows:

1. Respondent was at all times relative to this Complaint a medical doctors holding an
active license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada (License No. 8725). Respondent was
originally licensed by the Board on July 10, 1998.

2. Patient A was a 30-year-old female at the time of the incidents in question. Her
name is not disclosed in this Complaint to protect her identity, but her identity is disclosed in the
Patient Designation contemporaneously served on Respondent with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On March 14, 2017, Patient A appeared at Respondent’s office (Symmetry Medical
Spa) for a job interview, accepted the job offer, and then received treatments on her face,
specifically, Botox injections into her skin and Restylane (hyaluronic acid) injections to her upper

and lower lips. Subsequently, Patient A’s lips were continuously painful and/or numb and full of

1 The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board) was composed of Board
members Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman, Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, and Aury Nagy, M.D.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



various sized bump/lumps/masses. A standard patient information and medical history form was
filled out by Patient A, but there was no other documentation of the visit by the physician except
for a brief handwritten notation of the injections noted on the product treatment form. For this
Patient A encounter, Respondent recorded no history and physical examination note or visit note,
nor did he document her chief complaint, purpose of her visit, or any indications for the
procedures/treatments he performed on her. Patient A signed two consent forms (standardized
Botox preprinted sheet and a standardized Restylane preprinted consent sheet, which appears to be
a “sample form” based upon the following language: “Place Letterhead And Remove Note” and
“please review and modify to fit your actual practice.” Respondent did not sign either of these
two forms. Respondent’s handwritten and partially illegible note for the Restylane injection lists
the drug lot number, expiration date, and “Restylane inject able with lidocaine” followed by “local
anesthesia with perioral injection.” There is no mention of any sterile technique and no formal
procedure note. There is no mention of the amount of lidocaine used or what type of lidocaine
preparation was used. The Botox note only contained the date, lot number, expiration date for the
drug and number of units injected.

4, On March 16, 2017, Patient A returned to Respondent following the face treatment
she received. Respondent’s handwritten note was on the same preprinted treatment forms and
from this note it reads, “Pt. re-evaluated. Lip [illegible] with good contour; c/o palpable nodules
upper and lower lip; most likely deposits from ... [illegible]; will evaluate ... [illegible] consider
hyaluronidase ... [illegible] gingival areas.

5. On March 22, 2017, Patient A presented with facial pain. Respondent noted
“marked swelling and edema in her upper lip,” and “most likely an allergic reaction to Restylane;
injected with 45 units of hyaluronidase (Hylenex) in the upper and lower lips. Pt. tolerated the
procedure without complication. 30 gauge % inch need used for injections.” Respondent’s
medical records do not include consent forms, a test dose before the procedure (strongly
recommended by the Hylenex manufacture), local anesthesia, or sterile technique used.



Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



COUNT I
NRS 630.3062(1)(a)
(Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

6. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

7. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

8. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document his actions when he treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, or complete, when Respondent failed to
obtain consent for the Hylenex injection treatment, through lack of formal procedure notes, and
failure to take an adequate history and perform a more complete physical examination, especially
when an injection may have been performed at the March 22, 2017, encounter.

9. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent,

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, to include sanctions to be imposed; and


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

. OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL .


5.

premises.

That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

DATED this ( day of July, 2019.

By:

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Robert Kilroy, Edq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE ) ™

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and

correct.

Dated this | gh day of July, 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEVADA
STATE BOARD QF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

dine

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman



CERTIFICATE OF MAILING

I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on the 17" day of July, 2019, I served a filed copy of the formal COMPLAINT, via USPS

e-certified, return receipt mail to the following:

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


Hugh Arthur Burt
2605 East Flamingo Road
Las Vegas, NV 89121

tn
Dated this 19" day of July, 2019.

Shue ot Gur qley

Sheri L. Quigley, Legal‘As3istant

