Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

i
as
Zi


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

2,


In the Matter of Charges and Case Nos. 19-28023-1
Complaint Against 19-28023-2
EDWARD MICHAEL OUTLAW, M.D., 19-28023-3 FT LE D
Respondent.
DEC - 9 2019
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

ME AL EX
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT py: NE

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Edward Michael Outlaw, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in
Nevada, assisted by his attorney, Ogonna Brown, Esq., of the law firm of Lewis Roca Rothgerber
Christie LLP, hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following: !

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor licensed in inactive status (License No. 10630) by the
Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). Respondent was originally
licensed to practice medicine in Nevada on September 8, 2003.

2. On March 19, 2019, in Case No. 19-28023-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint 1) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically,
Complaint 1 alleges: Count I, violation of NRS 630.3065(2)(a) (Failing to Comply With a Lawful
Order of the Investigative Committee); Count II, violation of NRS 630.306(1)G) (Failing to
Timely Notify the Board of a Change of Permanent Address); Count III, violation of

NRS 630.301(9) (Disreputable Conduct). Also on March 19, 2019, in Case No. 19-28023-2, the

| All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any
subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any statg.or

federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.
WI

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

za


IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint 2) charging Respondent with violating the Medical
Practice Act. Specifically, Complaint 2 alleges: Count I, violation of NRS 630.3065(3) (Failure
to Perform a Statutory Obligation); Count II, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) (Engaging in
Conduct That Violated Pharmacy Board Regulations); Count III, violation of
NRS 630.3065(2)(a) (Failing to Comply With a Lawful Order of the Investigative Committee);
Count IV, violation of NRS 630.301(9) (Disreputable Conduct). On November 5, 2019, in Case
No. 19-28023-3, the IC filed a formal Complaint (Complaint 3) charging Respondent with
violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, Complaint 3 alleges: Count I, violation of
NRS_ 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of Standards of Practice); Count II, violation of
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Proper Medical Records). Complaints 1, 2 and 3 are
hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Complaints.”

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaints, has reviewed and
understands the Complaints, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaints.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaints. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the
Complaints, the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by


regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respon

Fi

Nw

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

LS




license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaints, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent was all times relevant to the Complaints a physician

licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set forth in the
Medical Practice Act.

2 Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.
Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all nghts in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives

all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, thesMedical

oS)

Y

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL





Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaints
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaints, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaints, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaints as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. As of the time of entering
into this Settlement Agreement, the allegations of the Complaints remain unproven. Respondent
acknowledges that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in
conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges
Respondent is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaints have merit
and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaints, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

3. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve the Complaints pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to all Counts, I through III, of Complaint 1; Respondent admits
to all Counts, I through IV, of Complaint 2; Respondent admits to Count II of Complaint 3;

b. Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Nevada shall be placed on
probation for a period of five (5) years from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement (Probationary Period). During the Probationary Period, Respondent’s
license shall be subject to revocation for noncompliance with this Agreement as provided herein.

Respondent shall complete the following terms and conditions and demonstrate compliance to the



Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559







Zi


good faith satisfaction of the Board within the Probationary Period. If Respondent fails to
demonstrate compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or otherwise violates
the terms of this Agreement or the Medical Practice Act, then the IC shall be authorized to
immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Nevada, pending a duly noticed
Order To Show Cause Hearing to take place before a duly appointed Hearing Officer within sixty
(60) days of the suspension. The Hearing shall be conducted pursuant to NRS 622A.300(4)-(5),
the Hearing Officer shall prepare written findings and recommendations and serve the findings
and recommendations on the Respondent and Board within sixty (60) days, and the Board shall
review the case and render its final determination at the next regularly scheduled quarterly Board
meeting that the matter can be properly noticed in accord with Nevada law. Ifa violation of this
Agreement or the Medical Practice Act is proved, then pursuant to the express terms of this
Agreement, the probation shall be rescinded, and Respondent’s license shall be revoked. In such
case, pursuant to NRS 622A.410(1), Respondent may not apply for reinstatement of his medical
license for a period of five (5) years from the date of the Board’s final order of revocation. If
Respondent successfully completes the Probationary Period, demonstrates compliance with the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, and otherwise fulfills all terms of this Agreement, and
does not otherwise commit any new violations of the Medical Practice Act, then, at that time, the
order of probation shall be terminated. The following terms and conditions shall apply during
Respondent’s Probationary Period:

(1) Respondent shall perform one hundred (100) hours of community service, without
compensation, related to the provision of medical care to the poor or indigent. The
community service shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The community service
shall be performed at the direction of a recognized not-for-profit organization, and
proof of completion from said organization shall be provided to the satisfaction of the
Board within ninety (90) days of their completion;

(2) Respondent shall pay a fine of $500 per count admitted to hereby, consisting of
eight (8) counts, for a total of $4,000, within two (2) years of the Board’s acceptance,

. al

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



adoption and approval of this Agreement. The foregoing fine shall be paid in twenty-
four (24) equal monthly installments of $166.66, the first payment to be made on or
before December 31, 2019;

(3) Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within two (2) years of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being
$8,777.84, not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.
The foregoing costs shall be paid in twenty-four (24) equal monthly installments of
$365.75, the first payment to be made on or before December 31, 2019;

(4) Respondent shall complete twenty (20) hours of live, in-person and comprehensive
continuing medical education (CME) focused specifically on best practices in the
prescribing of controlled substances within six (6) months of the date of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of
CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon
Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and shall be approved by
the Board to meet this requirement prior to their completion, and proof of completion
shall be provided to the Board within ninety (90) days of their completion;

(5) Respondent shall comply with all court orders and complete all conditions or terms of
sanctions imposed on him by the courts of the State of Nevada, specifically including
but not limited to those of the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County, Nevada,
in Case No. A-13-683202-F. Respondent shall provide proof of compliance with this
term upon request of the Board and to the satisfaction of the Board;

(6) Respondent shall not supervise or formally agree to supervise any physician assistant
in the State of Nevada, and shall not formally agree to supervise or enter into a
collaboration agreement with an advanced practice registered nurse in the State of
Nevada.

C. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required

by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


an

d. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

@: All other claims or issues arising from the Complaints shall be dismissed with
prejudice.
6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.

. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of the Complaints. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption
of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaints and any
and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree
that Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is

discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the JC’s

counsel. 44)

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL





8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and the remaining counts of the Complaints, if any, shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
the Complaints and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on immediate revocation of his
license, which will be duly noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including

failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply ith an

Zi

order of the Board, which may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against
Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a). Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board
for monies agreed to be paid as a condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil

collection efforts.

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



Dated this W day of N oven <= 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS


By: al ie

Aaron Be :eKe, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attomey for the Investigative Committee

am
Dated this {Zz day of _/ Vere rOQ49. |

LEWIS ROCA ROTHGERBER CHRISTIE LLP

Pa

yg 4
fv" Y
i
if ——, oo
Kr fo a i _ 7
By: — i ae

. Ogofina Brown, Esq.
(“Attorneys for Respondent

ZL

award one Gulaw, M.D-Respondent

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521

(775) 688-2559



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement (19-28023-1, 19-28023-2,
19-28023-3) is approved and accepted by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6m

day of December, 2019, with the final total amount of costs due of $8,777.84.

Direkt frekalochey

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

