'9600 Gateway Drive
(75) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
Reno, Nevada 89521

cer aun eern

u
a

THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
BodeG
In the Matter of Charges and ‘Case No, 19-40909-1
Complaint Against
FILED

LIBBY KRISTAL, M.D.,

a MAR 2.8 2019

By:
COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board)
hereby issues this formal Complaint (Complaint) against Libby Kristal, M.D. (Respondent), a
licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC! has a reasonable basis to
believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). The IC
alleges the following facts:

1. Respondent was licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions of the Medical
Practice Act, on October 23, 2013, and is currently licensed in active status (License No. 15023).

2. Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect her privacy, but is
disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.

3. On September 18, 2014, Patient A presented to Respondent for a left eye cataract
surgery. Patient A was given eye drops in the pre-operation stage and she was informed that her
surgery was imminent, but she remained in this pre-op stage for at least four hours. There is no
documentation within the medical records indicated for this four-hour delay. Subsequently,
Respondent began this procedure and inserted a new lens in Patient A’s left eye. This surgery was
performed with complications of a posterior capsular rupture, vitreous loss and the placement of

an anterior chamber lens implant.

" Atthe time filing of the Complaint was approved, the IC was composed of Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman,
Mr. M, Neil Duxbury, and Aury Nagy, M.D.

lofS

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(75) 688-2859

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

4. On September 23, 2014, Respondent's notes indicate that she (Respondent) was
unable to remove the entirety of the lens cortex but “did not feel there was any nuclear material
remaining.”

5. From September 18, 2014, to approximately the end of October 2014, Respondent
saw Patient A for six surgical follow-ups. Respondent's complaints included floaters, eye pain,
and it was found that on these repeated examinations that Patient A’s left eye had an elevated
intraocular pressure, comeal edema and intraocular inflammation to a degree greater than
normally seen following a cataract surgery. This elevated intraocular pressure rise was significant
and required the use of multiple medications, mcluding eye drops and an oral agent,
acetazolamide (Diamox). This inflammation was severe enough to necessitate an increase in the
potency and frequency of the topical steroid drops above what is usually required during the post-
operative period of cataract surgery. Finally, after approximately five weeks after the initial
surgery, Respondent referred Patient A to a retina specialist, who subsequently diagnosed retained
nuclear lens fragments and scheduled an urgent surgery for the removal of the debris (from
Respondent’s surgery). Respondent’s notes indicate “No Data” under the “Fundus” heading for
all of the examinations conducted postoperatively upon Patient A’s eye.

6. Previous to the preparation of this Complaint, the Board solicited the services of an
independent medical expert (IME) to review Patient A’s medical records and the medical care
provided to such patient by Respondent. This IME opined that Respondent's medical care of
Patient A violated the Medical Practice Act due to her acts and omissions when rendering care to
Patient A. Further, the IME opined that Respondent's care was below the standard of care when
she failed todiagnose the retained nuclear material in Patient A’s left eye and failed to act
diligently with the findings of increased intraocular pressure and increased inflammation
postoperatively. These aforementioned findings should have alerted Respondent to the presence
of retained nuclear material and should have prompted her to examine the vitreous and fundus of
the patient postoperatively. Additionally, the IME opined that in the instance of a complicated
cataract surgery with a posterior capsular rupture and vitreous prolapse requiring an automated

anterior vitrectomy, a surgeon should be on heightened alert for signs and symptoms of retained

2ofS

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521,

(775) 688-2559

Rew

Ce raw

rT
a




nuclear material. The IME noted the literature [American Journal of Ophthalmology, published in
2008, entitled “Clinical Predicators and Outcomes of Pars Plana Vitrectomy for Retained Lens
Material After Cataract Extraction”] indicates a common knowledge standard of the signs and
symptoms associated with retained nuclear material following cataract surgery.
Count
(Malpractice)

7, All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8. NR 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9. NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

10. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when
rendering medical services to Patient A because Respondent failed to adequately perform
postoperative examinations and failed to diagnose retained lens fragments in the operated eye,
which caused delays in having Patient A receive the timely and appropriate care to fix her left eye.

11. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Count It
(Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

12. Alllof the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herem.

13. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

mM
mM


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

‘Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

'9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada £9521

(C75) 688-2559

14, Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document her actions when she treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, or complete.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1B That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. ‘That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,

conclusions of law and order, in writing, to include sanctions to be imposed; and
5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this 1D sy of March, 2019,

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Robert Kilroy, Esq.
General Counsel
Attomey for the Investigative Committee

4o0f5

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521,

(C75) 688-2559

VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE)

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

Dated this 23" ‘day of March, 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEVADA
STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Wayne tage | hairman

Sof5

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

[Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

‘9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 656-2559

i
13,
a




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
Thereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that

on the 9" day of April, 2019, I served a filed copy of the formal COMPLAINT, via USPS

e-certified, return receipt mail to the following:

Libby Kristal, M.D.

Siems Lasik & Eye Center
8230 W. Sahara Avenue, #111
Las Vegas, NV 89117

Dated this 1” day of April, 2019.

Ssistant

