OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


BNRBARBRB RSF Fe AAaADRESBSHE SBS

THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 19-9829-1
Complaint Against

FILED
PATRICIA MORALES, M.D.,

FEB 2€ 2019
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDI EXAMINERS
By: 5 ae

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee (IC)! of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board)
hereby issues this Complaint (Complaint) against Patricia Morales M.D. (Respondent), a licensed
physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a reasonable basis to believe that
Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statute (NRS) Chapter 630 and the Nevada
Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act). The IC alleges

the following facts:
1. Respondent was licensed by the Board, pursuant to the provisions of the Medical
Practice Act, on September 19, 1987, and is currently licensed in active status (License No. 5570).
2. Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed herein to protect his privacy, but is
disclosed in the Patient Designation served upon Respondent along with a copy of this Complaint.
3. On March 9, 2012, Patient A presented to Respondent complaining of left hand
pain. Patient A has a history of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and Patient A previously had
undergone an open right carpal tunnel release in Arizona. EMG (Electromyography) studies

demonstrated a left carpal tunnel syndrome. Patient A’s initial examination showed no

' The IC, at the time this formal Complaint was authorized for filing, consisted of Theodore B. Berndt, M.D.,
Chairman, Michael J. Fischer, M.D., and Ms. Valerie J. Clark.

lof5

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

a fF WN

co Oe NO


thenaratrophy and an unequivocal Tinel’s sign, but a positive result for the Phalen’s test on the left
hand.

4. On September 19, 2012, Respondent took Patient A to the Great Basin Surgical
Center. Respondent placed Patient A’s left wrist in the hyperflexion and entered the carpal tunnel
on the radial side. Respondent lacerated Patient A’s medial nerve.

5. On October 15, 2012, Respondent documented Patient A’s pain and swelling, with
continued complaints of numbness in his index finger, with a positive Tinel’s sign, and prescribed
amitriptyline and placed him in physical therapy.

6. On November 28, 2012, Patient A was seen by an Idaho-licensed M.D., who noted
during his examination that Patient A had left median nerve numbness in the median nerve
distribution and severe point tenderness at the carpal ligament area. Patient A’s thumb and fingers
were moderately swollen and there were well-healed incisions at the mid-palm and the wrist-palm
junction; the scars were consistent with a Choi technique.

7. Previous to the preparation of this Complaint, the Board solicited the services of an
independent medical expert (IME) to review Patient A’s medical records and the care provided to
such patient by Respondent. This IME opined that Respondent’s care of Patient A violated the
Medical Practice Act due to her acts and omissions when rendering care to Patient A, and further
opined that it was below the standard of care to lacerate the nerve and that the carpal tunnel should
not be entered on the radial side because this procedural entry approach would put the median
nerve at risk. There were reported complications for endoscopic carpal tunnel release. IME noted
the literature indicates that the medical nerve is located radial to the palmaris longus tendon and
proper entry should be made on the ulnar side of the tendon.

Count I
(Malpractice)

8. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

9. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice of a physician is grounds for initiating

disciplinary action against a licensee.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



10. | NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

ll. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when:
a) Patient’s A wrist should have been in hyperextension, not hyperflexion; b) Respondent placed
Patient A’s wrist in the hyperflexion and entered the carpal tunnel on the radial side; and, c)
Respondent lacerated the Patient A’s medial nerve, causing the patient to experience pain,
numbness and reduced functioning of his left hand.

12. _ By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

Count It
(Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

13. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

14. NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

15. Respondent failed to maintain complete medical records relating to the diagnosis,
treatment and care of Patient A, by failing to document her actions when she treated Patient A,
whose medical records were not timely, legible, accurate, and complete.

20. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the IC prays:

1. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against her and give
her notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early

Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


15,

3. That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it finds and concludes that
there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4. That the Board make, issue and serve on Respondent its findings of fact,
conclusions of law and order, in writing, to include the sanctions to be imposed; and,

5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.
DATED an Uy day of February, 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Robert Kilfoy, Esq.
General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

40f5

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE)

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

rs
Dated this 20. day of February, 2019.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEVADA
STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

due

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
Ihereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that

thy
ono day of February, 2018, I served a file-stamped copy of the COMPLAINT via USPS

e-certified return receipt mail to the following:

Patricia Morales, M.D.

c/o Edward J. Lemons, Esq.
Lemons, Grundy & Eisenberg
6005 Plumas Street, Suite 300
Reno, Nevada 89519

Dated this 2L6"Yay of February, 2019.

K. Quygley

Sheri L. Quigley, Legal Xssistant


