OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

bo



Zi

THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KRREE SK

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 19-9829-1

Complaint Against FI LE D

PATRICIA MORALES, M.D.,
SEP - 6 2019
Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD O
MEDICA? EXAMIN
By: re
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC. and
Patricia Morales, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, represented by legal
counsel, Edward J. Lemons, Esq., hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based
on the following: '

A. Background

i Respondent is a physician licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada since September 19, 1987
(License No. 5570).

2. On February 26, 2019, in Case No. 19-9829-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) alleging that Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, this Complaint
alleged one (1) violation of NRS_ 630.301(4) (malpractice) and one (1) violation of

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


Af


NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (failure to maintain complete medical records). By reason of the foregoing,
Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as provided in NRS 630.352.

33 Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

4. Respondent is hereby advised of her rights regarding this administrative matter, and
her opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is
contained in NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations
in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at her own expense, in the preparation and
presentation of her defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against
her, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of
the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to her.

= Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

6. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

LS
Ty
Al


B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at her own expense. Respondent acknowledges she is represented by counsel,
and wishes to resolve the matters addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if
representation by counsel in this matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement
and for the duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the
material change. Respondent agrees that she knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this
Agreement after deciding to have a full consultation with and upon the advice of said legal
counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms and

conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection with
this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all
rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical Practice
Act, the APA and any other legal rights that may be available to her or that may apply to her in
connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this matter,
including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the Complaint and
imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board. Respondent agrees to
settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this Agreement, without a hearing
or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.


H/


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examinets

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


ea

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The Board acknowledges Respondent
is not admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit and
Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts that if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has
evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the Complaint,
but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the
presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this
Agreement

= Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that
is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly, the following terms
and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to Count Il, one (1) allegation of violating NRS
630.3062(1)(a) (medical records); the IC dismisses Count I, the malpractice claim with prejudice.

b. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $1,500.00, not including any
costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

c. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

d. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

y



é. Respondent shall take three (3) hours of continuing medical education
(CME) related to electronic medical records within six (6) months from the date of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be
in addition to any CME requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition
of licensure in the State of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board prior to their completion.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced.

qi Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in

resolution of the Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of

this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the

adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on her part until the public Board
meeting where the Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,

respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL,



8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

ri. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is required

to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such jurisdiction and
agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court, State of Nevada,
Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply With Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term

or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may

result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL



iv |
ZA
pa


Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this [ve of Where , 2019.

{Le WA
By:
Robert G. Kwroy, Ksq.
Attorney fé@r the Inyestigative Committee

Dated this 22 day of Maret , 2019

Ratrieva Morales, M.D., Respéndent

Dated ae of / U, ARLEL 2019.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 895521

(775) 688-2559



IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 6" day of September, 2019, with the final

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

total amount of costs due of $1,500.00.

