
Oo S&S os


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


Case No. 12-4399-1
FILED

In The Matter of Charges and )
GARY LaTOURETTE, M.D., ) SEP 10 2018

Complaint Against

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDICAL EXAMINE
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is hereby entered into by and between the Investigative Committee

Respondent.

(ac) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), composed of
Benjamin J. Rodriguez, M.D., Chairman, Beverly A. Neyland, M.D., Member, and
Ms. Donna A. Ruthe, Member, by and through, Erin Albright, Esq., Board General Counsel and
Attorney for the IC, and Gary LaTourette, M.D. (Respondent), by and through his counsel,
Patricia Egan Daehnke, as follows:

WHEREAS, on May 8, 2012, the Board’s IC filed a formal Complaint in the
above-captioned ‘matter charging Respondent with engaging in conduct that is grounds for
discipline pursuant to the Nevada Medical Practice Act (MPA), Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC), to
wit: Count I, one count of malpractice, the failure of a physician, in treating a patient, to use the
reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances, as defined by
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) 630.040, a violation of NRS 630.301(4); and, Count II, one
count of failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical records relating to the

diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of NRS 630,3062(1);

Mf

1043698.1 . 1

a1

WHEREAS, Respondent has received a copy of the formal Complaint, reviewed it,
understands it, and has had ample opportunity to consult with his counsel concerning the nature
and significance of the formal Complaint. Respondent is fully aware concerning his rights and
defenses to the formal Complaint, as well as the possible sanctions that may be imposed if the
Board finds and concludes that he has engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to
the MPA; |

‘ WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) is entered into by and between him and the Board’s IC, and not with the Board, but
that the IC will present this Agreement to the Board for consideration in open session at a meeting
duly noticed and scheduled. Respondent understands that the IC shall advocate approval of this
Agreement by the Board, but that the Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or
not to approve this Agreement; and, |

WHEREAS, Respondent understands and agrees that if the Board approves the terms,
covenants and conditions of this Agreement, then the terms, covenants and conditions enumerated
below shall be binding and enforceable upon him. |

NOW THEREFORE, in order to resolve this matter and all charges alleged by the
Board’s IC in the above-captioned matter, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following
terms, covenants and conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times mentioned in the formal Complaint
filed in the above-captioned matter was, a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board to hear and adjudicate charges of violations
of the MPA, and to impose sanctions as provided by the MPA.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent_Agreement.

Respondent is represented by legal counsel in this matter and has had ample opportunity to
review this Agreement, the formal Complaint filed in this matter and the related factual basis with
said legal counsel, Patricia Egan Daehnke. Respondent covenants and agrees that he enters into

this Agreement knowingly, willingly and intelligently in order to bring this matter to a conclusion.


1043698.1 2


oOo oc


3. Waiver of Rights. Respondent waives all rights in connection with this

Agreement, and the terms, covenants and conditions contained herein, and with the understanding
that Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights arising under or pursuant
to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of Nevada, the MPA,
NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him or that may apply
to him in connection with the proceedings on the formal Complaint filed herein, the defense of
said formal Complaint and the adjudication of the charges in said formal Complaint.

Respondent agrees that the matter of the formal Complaint herein may be settled and
resolved in accordance with this Agreement without a hearing or any further proceedings, and
without the right to judicial review. In the event this Agreement is not approved by the Board, this
Agreement shall have no force and effect and shall be void ab initio, and Respondent shall have all
rights arising under or pursuant to the United States Constitution, the constitution of the state of
Nevada, the MPA, NRS Chapter 233B, and any other statutory rights that may be available to him
or that may apply to him in connection with the proceeding on the formal Complaint filed herein.

4, Consent to Entry of Order. Respondent concedes only that the Board has

sufficient evidence to proceed with its formal Complaint against him, but does not concede or
admit to such allegations, which he expressly denies, and which, but for his desire to reach this
compromise, he would contest at the formal hearing of this matter by competent expert medical
testimony including his own. Accordingly, in order to resolve the matter without incurring further
costs and expense of providing a defense to the formal Complaint or to any other further amended
complaint, and in exchange for the waiver of the Respondent’s foregoing rights, Respondent has
entered into this Agreement!, and agrees that:

a. The Board may find that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for

discipline pursuant to the MPA, to wit: failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete

' Any and all admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any subsequent related
administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore, said admissions by
Respondent are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government
regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal court proceeding, or any other state or federal court

proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.

1043698.1 3


Oo CoO ~ W


{| Board within thirty (30) days of the Board’s acceptance and approval of this Agreement,

medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient, a violation of
NRS 630.3062(1), as set forth in Count II of the formal Complaint;

b. Respondent shall receive a public reprimand in connection with Count IT,

c. Pursuant to NRS 622.400, Respondent shall reimburse the Board the sum of
$2,833.40, the current amount of the costs incurred by the Board to investigate and prosecute this

matter, along with the costs to conclude the matter, if any. The costs shall be paid to the

d. Count I shall be dismissed; and,
e. The terms of this Agreement shall be reported as required by law.
5. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, the Respondent, for

himself, his executors, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the state of
Nevada, the Board, the Nevada Attorney General, and each of their members, agents and
employees in their representative capacities, and in their individual capacities, from any and all |
manner of actions, causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands
whatsoever, known and unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have
or claim to have, against any or all of the persons or entities named in this paragraph arising out of
or by reason of this investigation, this Agreement or its administration. .

6. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The JC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms, covenants ’and conditions contained herein by the
Board in resolution of the formal Complaint pending herein against Respondent. In the course of
seeking Board approval, adoption and/or acceptance of this Agreement, counsel for the IC may
communicate directly with the Board staff and members of the panel of the Board who would
adjudicate this case if it were to go to hearing.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communication may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part, or on the part of his
counsel, until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the

formal Complaint, and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to the formal

1043698. 1 4



Complaint or the proceedings herein against Respondent. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent and/or his counsel may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is
discussed, and if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or its

counsel.

Respondent and the IC expressly agree that the IC will not take this settlement agreement

to the Board until after the dismissal of the case titled Nevada Capital Insurance Company, et
al. v. Gary J. LaTourette, MD., Eighth Judicial District Court case A626441. In exchange for
this consideration, Respondent will not make any challenges in this matter regarding laches or
delay pertaining to the formal Complaint filed herein.

7. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board approves,

accepts and. adopts the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, counsel for the
IC will cause to be entered herein the Board’s order accepting, adopting and approving this
Settlement Agreement, ordering full-;compliance with the terms herein and ordering that this case

be closed, subject to the provisions in Paragraph 4.

8, Effect of Rejection of Apreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

approve, accept and adopt the terms, covenants and conditions set out in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be null, void, and of no further force and effect except as to the following
covenant and agreement regarding disqualification of adjudicating Board panel members.
Respondent agrees that, notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing
contained herein and nothing that occurs pursuant to the efforts of the IC or its counsel to seek
acceptance and adoption of this Agreement by the Board shall disqualify any member of the
adjudicating panel of the Board from considering the charges against Respondent and participating
in the disciplinary proceeding in any role, including adjudication of the case. Respondent further
agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any such member absent evidence of bad faith.

9. Binding Effect. If this Agreement is approved by the Board, Respondent

covenants and agrees that this Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent

and the Board’s IC which contract may be enforced in a court or tribunal having jurisdiction.

1043698. 5


BNRRRBRBR REESE UV RBEESH RSE

10. Forum Selection Clause. Respondent covenants and agrees that inthe event either

patty is required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in the district court, he consents to such |
jurisdiction, and covenants and agrees that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the
Second Judicial District Court of the state of Nevada in and for the county of Washoe,

11. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Respondent covenants and agrees that in the event-an
action is commenced in the district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement the prevailing
patty shalf be entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.

12. Failure to Comply With Terms, In the event the Board enters its order approving
this Agreement, should Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition recited herein, the
Board shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the
state of Nevada pending an order to show cause hearing, which will be duly noticed, Further,
fallore to comply with the terms recited herein may tesult in additional disciplinary action being
initiated against Respondent for a violation of an Order of the Board in accordance with
NRS '630.3065(2)(a), Moreover, the failure of Respondent to reisoburse the Board for monies

agreed to be paid as a condition of settlement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts,

Dated this“) day of Besesbeas Dated this 22-day of Deaulaaou.

Erin Al ig! i ~ ” paula Egan Ce”,
Attorney for the Ifvestigative Conimittee Attorney for Respondent

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

uirette, M.D, Responden'

1043698.) 6

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of September, 2018, with the final

total amount of costs due of $2,833.40. 4 &
hallo
D hil halve

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

