OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 17-40944-1
Complaint Against
Prasun Pal, M.D, F LED

SEP 10 2018
Respondent.

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDICAL EXAMINERS
By: wt.
Vee

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., Board General Counsel and attorney for the IC and
Prasun Pal, M.D., (Respondent), a formerly licensed physician in Nevada, hereby enter into this
Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following: !
A. Background

1. Respondent was a physician licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada from July 1, 2013 until his
license expired on January 29, 2015. Respondent did not renew in 2015 and remains in an
expired status. (License No. LL2443).

2. On August 17, 2017, in Case No. 17-40944-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) alleging that Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, this Complaint

alleges: one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(9), one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(11)(d) and one (1)

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or

any credentialing or privileges matter.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1105 Terminal Way #301

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



violation of NRS 630.301(11)(g). Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint,
has reviewed and understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with
| competent counsel concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

3, Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter and his

| opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has certain

i rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada

i

Constitution, the Medical Practice Act and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is

! contained in NRS Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations

i

i! in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel at his own expense in the preparation and

| presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against

‘him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order reflecting the final decision of


i the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s Order, if the decision is adverse to him.

i

4, Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
7 regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
i license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
: administrative fines. as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board

: concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

;t
im

4 5. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
} Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
: Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
; understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the

« Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.

: Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement. then the

i
t

i

| terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.
| B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
; with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
| conditions:

is
f 2 of 6
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559


oO


1, Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a

physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set

forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent understands that he may retain and consult counsel prior to entering into this
Agreement at his own expense, Respondent acknowledges he is not represented by counsel,
and wishes to resolve the matters addressed herein without counsel. Respondent agrees that if
representation in this matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the
duration of this Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change.
Respondent agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after
deciding not to have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the APA and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that may apply to
him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint filed in this
matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in the
Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges
that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges Respondent is
admitting that the IC’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit and Respondent is
agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential subsequent litigation.
ndent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has evidence, witnesses, expert

Respo

witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the Complaint, but for the purpose of


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301

em wi bd

or

i


resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence,
witnesses, expert witnesses and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, Respondent
hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly, the following terms and
conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a. Respondent admits to one (1) violation of NRS 630.306(1 1)(d).

b. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation
and prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $1,025.00
not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

c, This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as
required by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

d Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

e. The IC will dismiss Counts I & III with prejudice.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands
and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,

committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and

unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,

or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

ke YY WH


7, Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and all
information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,

respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement

an order of the Board.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this

Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in a Nevada state district court, the parties consent


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

to such jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District

Court, State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).
Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this && day of JWt , 2018.

Robert Kilg#{ Esq.
Attorney e Investigative Committee

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED;

Dated this Hivday of __M au , 2018.

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me

this aH day of Pare , 2018.

Mailfler. ry

geile, CHRISTOPHER CLAPP

Notary Public - Arizona
iat

Maricopa County

My Comm, Expires May 8, 2020


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


gee.
gog8
Be ge
F 4


Zz


\o


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 7" day of September, 2018, with the final

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

total amount of costs due of $1,025.00.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
KaeEKKK
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 17-40944-1
Complaint Against FILED
Prasun Pal, M.D, AUG ~ 5 2019

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. ME EXAMINERS
BY! noe

ERRATA TO SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

This is an errata to correct an insubstantial error in the Settlement Agreement filed
September 7, 2018, in this matter, and should be appended thereto.

Line 8 of page 4 should read as follows:

“| Respondent admits to Count II; one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(11)(d). ...’

Vv
Dated this a day of A , 201 4

By: AL ALY

Robert Kifroy, Beg. General Counsel
Attorneys forthé Investigative Committee

UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:

Prasurt Pal, Respondent
Dated this 22nd day of M oe ,2048- Cold

