OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


&S Yk aR BEAR ESESPaerwriaaunrtantrwzre=Aas

THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and ) Case No. 18-10652-1
Complaint Against ) FILED
YARON ZEDEK, M.D., ) OCT 30 2018
) NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. ) By ee MINES
) :

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) hereby issues this formal Complaint (Complaint) against Yaron Zedek, M.D.
(Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a
reasonable basis to believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the
Medical Practice Act).

The IC alleges the following facts:

1. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 7310), and at all
times has been licensed as a physician by the Board since December 15, 1994, pursuant to the
provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

2. Patient A’s true identity is not disclosed in this Complaint to protect her identity,
but her identity is disclosed in the Patient Designation contemporaneously served on Respondent
with this Complaint.

3. On December 28, 2016, Patient A presented to Respondent for a prescription refill.
The Medical Records of Initial Psychiatric Report (Medical Record) indicated the following:

patient comes in today with a history and set of complaints that meet diagnostic criteria for post-

1 The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time the filing of this
Complaint was approved, was composed of Board members Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Wayne Hardwick, M.D., and

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2859


&® Ya A&R SS 8 SF Fe AABRESEK AS

traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) due to domestic abuse, panic disorder, as well as bipolar
disorder, depression, severe, without psychotic features, no known problems with alcohol or drug
abuse, and mood is depressed in the mental status exam section,

4. This Medical Record’s documentation did not include any specific history or
psychiatric signs or symptoms that are included in the set of complaints. Specifically, this
Medical Record lacks the following:

a. Patient A’s chief complaint, objective descriptions of her symptoms, her level of
distress and functioning, along with a pertinent review of systems, and a justification for the
diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder and justification for treatment with the drug Lamtictal. A diagnosis
of Bipolar Disorder, Depressed Phase, requires a history of multiple psychiatric symptoms over
defined periods of time. Here, the Medical Record contains only the following “meets diagnostic
criteria” without any specific symptom identification.

b. Documentation that addresses Patient A’s antidepressant use, symptom status of
the PTSD and panic disorder, and the potential risk of adding Lacmictal to the concurrent
treatment with the antidepressant Zoloft medication. There is no foundation for psychiatric
diagnosis and a lack of rationale for treatment with Lamictal when Patient A was already being
treated with an antidepressant.

c. Documentation of social history and past mental health history, lacking the
consideration and documentation thereof, and the effects and interaction of other, non-psychiatric
medications (Robaxin, Diclofenac, Baclofen, Lortab) that Patient A was taking at the time of this
examination.

5. As set forth in the Practice Guidelines published by the American Psychiatric
Association (APA), which are the most widely accepted standards of care for psychiatric patients,
the standard of care for the initial psychiatric evaluation of a patient includes documentation of the
rationale for treatment selection, including the discussion of specific factors that influenced the
treatment choice, and it is important to discuss the factors that influenced the treatment choice, as

such as symptom or syndrome being addressed by the treatment, the patient’s preferences

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(TTS) 688-2559


BS ff RR RPB BE BF SZBAE AA aRas Bs

regarding treatment, the potential side effects of treatment relative to other options, and the past
responses of patient to treatment.

6. As set forth from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth
Edition (DSM-5), the standard of care for the diagnostic criteria for Bipolar Disorder include a
history of a manic episode (a distinct period of an elevated mood lasting at least a week, plus three
or more defined mood or behavioral symptoms) and marked impairment functioning. The DSM-5
further states that a diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder with depression requires that the criteria for this
disorder are met at a previous time and the individual reports or demonstrates five (5) or more

symptoms of major depression for two (2) weeks or longer.

COUNT I
NRS 630.301(4) (Malpractice)

7. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

8. NRS 630.301(4) provides that malpractice by a physician is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action against a licensee.

9, NAC 630.040 defines malpractice as the failure of a physician, in treating a patient,
to use the reasonable care, skill, or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances.

10. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent failed
to use the reasonable care, skill or knowledge ordinarily used under similar circumstances when

he treated Patient A.

LL. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as

provided in NRS 630.352.
COUNT
NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records)

12. All of the allegations contained in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.
it

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


®&® YRkaRBR BRS SF Fae AAR EHR ES

13. | NRS 630.3062(1)(a) provides that the failure to maintain timely, legible, accurate
and complete medical records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of a patient is grounds
for initiating discipline against a licensee.

14. Respondent failed to maintain timely, legible, accurate and complete medical
records relating to the diagnosis, treatment and care of Patient A.

15. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

I. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that she may file an answer to the Complaint
herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint,

2. That Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a formal

hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine what sanctions to

impose if it determines there has been a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act

committed by Respondent;

4, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the sanctions
imposed; and

5. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further

action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this 29" day of October, 2018.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

wy SIL

Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE ) *

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and
correct.

Dated this 29" day of October, 2018.

Mens Prrabencele

Wayne Hefdwick, M.D.
Chairman Investigative Committee
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559


BN RRR BBR FSGS A ABREER SS

CERTIFICATE OF MAILING

I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on 31 day of October 2018; I served a filed copy of the COMPLAINT, PATIENT
DESIGNATION and fingerprinting information via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to the

following:

Yaron Zedek, M.D.
6889 S. Eastern Avenue
Las Vegas, NV 89119

Dated this 31" day of October, 2018.

Sheri L. Quigley, be a

6 9171 9690 0935 0096 2823 18

