OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

(Go

1&8 2

~l



IBS)

DD

Al


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

KRRE SK

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 18-11602-1

Complaint Against

FILED
AUG - 7 2018

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MED EXAMINER
By:

Jonathan B. Baktari, M.D.,

Respondent.

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee’ (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board) hereby issues this formal Complaint (Complaint) against Jonathan B. Baktari, M.D.
(Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada. After investigating this matter, the IC has a
reasonable basis to believe that Respondent has violated provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
(NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) Chapter 630 (collectively, the
Medical Practice Act). The IC alleges the following facts:

I. Respondent’s Licensure Status

l. Respondent is currently licensed in active status (License No. 8103), and has been
licensed by the Board since February 21, 1997. At all times alleged herein, Respondent was

licensed in an active status by the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

IL. Statement of Nevada Law Applicable to So-called “Medical Directors”

Part A — Delegating Practitioners, Medical Assistants, and the Unlicensed Practice of
Medicine

me Pursuant to NRS 630.400(1)(d), it is unlawful for any person to practice medicine
without being licensed by the Board under NRS Chapter 630, or by another medical professional
licensing board pursuant to chapters 631 to 637, inclusive, and chapters 639 or 640 of NRS.

2 |

3. Pursuant to NRS 630.020, the “Practice of medicine’ means:

' The Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners, at the time the filing of this
complaint was approved, was composed of Board members Theodore B. Berndt, M.D., Wayne Hardwick, M.D., and
Mr. M. Neil Duxbury.

a fi «

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

1S)

on



i



ae


2D


1. To diagnose, treat, correct, prevent or prescribe for any human disease,
ailment, injury, infirmity, deformity or other condition, physical or mental, by any
means or instrumentality, including, but not limited to, the performance of an
autopsy.

2. To apply principles or techniques of medical science in the diagnosis or the
prevention of any such conditions.

4. To offer, undertake, attempt to do or hold oneself out as able to do any of the
acts described in subsections | and 2.

4. Pursuant to NRS 630.305(1)(e), a Nevada physician or physician assistant may not
aid, assist, employ or advise, directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice
of medicine contrary to the provisions of the Medical Practice Act, and doing so is grounds for
initiating disciplinary action or denying licensure.

Di Pursuant to the Medical Practice Act, the only means by which a Nevada physician
or physician assistant may lawfully aid, assist, employ or advise, directly or indirectly, an
unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine is by delegating specific tasks to an
adequately supervised and trained “medical assistant.” Pursuant to NRS 630.0129, a “medical
assistant” means a person who: (a) performs clinical tasks under the supervision of a physician or
physician assistant; and (b) does not hold a license, certificate or registration issued by a
professional licensing or regulatory board in this State to perform such clinical tasks; the term
does not include a person who performs only administrative, clerical, executive or other
nonclinical tasks.

6. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(r), a Nevada physician or physician assistant must
adequately supervise their medical assistants, and failing to do so is grounds for initiating
disciplinary action or denying licensure.

7. Pursuant to NAC 630.830, a delegating practitioner is professionally responsible
for the safety and performance of each task which is delegated to a medical assistant. Pursuant to
NAC 630.810, a delegating practitioner may not delegate tasks to a medical assistant unless: (a)
the delegating practitioner knows that the medical assistant possesses the knowledge, skill and
training to perform the task safely and properly; (b) the medical assistant is not required to be

certified or licensed to perform that task; and (c) the medical assistant is employed by the

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559












delegating practitioner or the medical assistant and the delegating practitioner are employed by the
same employer.

8. Pursuant to NAC 630.820, a delegating practitioner may not supervise remotely a
medical assistant, except in a specific case of emergency in a rural area.”

9, Except as otherwise provided in NAC 630.820, pursuant to NAC 630.810, if a
medical assistant is delegated a task which involves an invasive procedure’, the delegating
practitioner must be immediately available to exercise oversight in person while the medical
assistant performs the task.

10. The term “medical director” is not recognized or defined under any Nevada law or
regulation pertaining to the professional conduct and responsibility of licensed medical
professionals, and no law authorizes so-called “medical directors” to violate or circumvent the
aforementioned statutes and regulations of the Nevada Medical Practice Act.

11. Accordingly, pursuant to NRS 630.400(1)(d), 630.305(1)(e), and 630.0129, and
NAC 630.800-840:

a. If a physician or physician assistant, whether by serving as a so-called “medical
director” or by some other relationship or circumstance, aids, assists, employs or
advises, directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of
medicine, then they may lawfully do so only as a delegating practitioner to an
adequately supervised, competent and properly trained medical assistant.

b. If a physician or physician assistant, whether by serving as a so-called “medical
director” or by some other relationship or circumstance, aids, assists, employs or
advises, directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of

medicine, and if that physician or physician assistant has not delegated specific

if Remote supervision of a medical assistant is prohibited unless: (a) the patient is located in a rural area; (b)
the delegating practitioner is physically located a significant distance from the location where the task is to be
performed; (c) the delegating practitioner determines that the exigent needs of the patient require immediate attention;
(d) the patient and the delegating practitioner previously established a practitioner-patient relationship; and (e) the
delegating practitioner is immediately available by telephone or other means of instant communication during the
performance of the task by the medical assistant. As used in NAC 630.820, “rural area’”’ means any area in this State
other than Carson City or the City of Elko, Henderson, Reno, Sparks, Las Vegas or North Las Vegas.

* NAC 449.9733 defines “invasive procedure” as a medical procedure involving entry into the human body by
puncture or incision or by insertion of an instrument.

4.

OFFICE OF ‘THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559




Ly,

cAI




tasks to an adequately supervised, competent and properly trained medical
assistant, then (1) that unlicensed person has violated NRS 630.400(1)(d), by
practicing medicine without a license, and (2) that physician or physician assistant
has violated NRS 630.305(1)(e), and is subject to discipline for aiding and abetting
the unlicensed practice of medicine.

c. Ifa physician or physician assistant delegates a medical task to a medical assistant,
whether by serving as a so-called “medical director” or by some other relationship
or circumstance, then they remain professionally responsible for the safety and
performance of each task, and they must ensure, and they are professionally
responsible for ensuring, that the medical assistant is trained, skilled, and properly
directed and supervised by them, and they must be present to supervise the specific
medical tasks at issue, and, if it is an invasive medical task, then they must be
immediately available to exercise oversight in person while the medical assistant
performs the task.

d. Ifa physician or physician assistant delegates a medical task to a medical assistant,
whether by serving as a so-called “medical director” or by some other relationship
or circumstance, and they fail to adequately supervise that medical assistant as
required under the circumstances, then that physician or physician assistant has
violated NRS 630.306(1)(r), and is subject to discipline for failing to adequately
supervise a medical assistant.

Part B — Nevada Pharmacy Laws Regarding Dangerous Drugs

12. Pursuant to NRS 454.201, a “dangerous drug” is any drug, other than a controlled
substance, unsafe for self-medication or unsupervised use, and includes, among other things, any
drug which has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for general distribution and
bears the legend: “Rx only,” . . . any drug which, pursuant to the Board’s regulations, may be sold
only by prescription because the Board has found those drugs to be dangerous to public health or

safety.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

Sn!







1?
20)

ZL



13. Pursuant to NRS 454.316 and NRS 454.321, it is unlawful to possess, dispense, or
furnish a dangerous drug except when furnished to the person by a pharmacist pursuant to a legal
prescription.

14. NAC 639.742(1) provides that a practitioner who wishes to dispense controlled
substances or dangerous drugs must apply to the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy for a certificate
of registration to dispense controlled substances or dangerous drugs. A practitioner must submit a
separate application for each site of practice, including, without limitation, any remote site or
satellite consultation site, from which the practitioner wishes to dispense controlled substances or
dangerous drugs.

15. NAC 639.742(2) provides that if a facility from which the practitioner intends to
dispense dangerous drugs or controlled substances is not wholly owned and operated by the
practitioner, the owner or owners of the facility must also submit an application to the Nevada
State Board of Pharmacy for a license to do so.

16. NAC 639.742(3) provides in pertinent part that a dispensing practitioner and, if
applicable, the owner or owners of the facility, shall ensure that:

(b) All drugs are received and accounted for by the dispensing practitioner;
(c) All drugs are stored in a secure, locked room or cabinet to which the dispensing
practitioner has the only key or lock combination;

(d) All drugs are dispensed in accordance with NAC 639.745";

* NAC 639.745 Duties of certain practitioners concerning dispensing of controlled substances and dangerous drugs.
(NRS 639.070, 639.0727)

1. Each practitioner who is registered with the Board to dispense controlled substances and dangerous drugs,
including, without limitation, a dispensing practitioner, and who dispenses such products for use by the practitioner’s
patients outside his or her presence shall:

(a) Keep complete, accurate and readily retrievable records of each controlled substance and dangerous drug
purchased and dispensed. The record for each such product dispensed to a patient must include:

(1) The name of the patient and, if not readily available from the practitioner’s records, the patient’s address;
(2) The name, strength and quantity of the prescribed controlled substance or dangerous drug;

(3) The directions for use;

(4) The date the prescription was issued; and

(5) A unique identifying number.

(b) Maintain a separate file for the records concerning the purchase of each controlled substance listed in schedule
II and a separate file for the records concerning the dispensing of each controlled substance listed in schedule II. Each
prescription for a controlled substance or dangerous drug must be maintained in a separate file pursuant to the
requirements set forth in NAC 453.480.

(c) Keep all controlled substances and dangerous drugs in a locked storage area. Access to the storage area must
be restricted to the persons described in NRS 453.375.

a=

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL






(e) No prescription is dispensed to a patient unless the dispensing practitioner 1s on-
site at the facility;

(f) All drugs are dispensed only to the patient personally on-site at the facility; ...
(h) All drugs are dispensed only for medically necessary purposes and according to
prevailing standards of care for practitioners practicing in the specialty claimed or
practiced by the dispensing practitioner; and

(1) The certificate for each dispensing technician employed at the facility is
displayed in the room or cabinet in which drugs are stored.

17. NAC 639.742(4)(a)-(b) provides in part that with regard to the filling and
dispensing of a prescription at a facility, only the dispensing practitioner or a dispensing technician
may enter the room or cabinet in which drugs are stored, or remove drugs from stock.

18. NAC 639.945 (1) provides in pertinent part that the following acts or practices by a
holder of any license, certificate or registration issued by the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy or
any employee of any business holding any such license, certificate or registration are declared to
be, specifically but not by way of limitation, unprofessional conduct and conduct contrary to the

public interest:

(d) Ensure that each package or container in which a controlled substance is dispensed, except samples in the
manufacturer’s packages, is clearly labeled pursuant to the requirements set forth in NRS 639.2801.

(e) Ensure that the package or container in which a controlled substance or dangerous drug is dispensed complies
with all state and federal packaging requirements.

(f) Be deemed to be a pharmacy as that term is used in NAC 639.926 and shall comply with that section.

2. A practitioner may dispense dangerous drugs or controlled substances only after the patient has been informed
by the practitioner that the patient may request a written prescription and have it filled at another location of the
patient’s choosing.

3. Arecord regarding the dispensing of a controlled substance or dangerous drug made and kept pursuant to this
section must be maintained on paper or in a computer. If the record is:

(a) Maintained on paper, the record must:

(1) Include all the information required to be on the prescription pursuant to NRS 639.2353 and NAC 453.440:

(2) Set forth on the front of the prescription a certification initialed and dated by the patient that the patient has
been informed by the practitioner in accordance with subsection 2 and that the patient has agreed to have the
practitioner dispense the controlled substance or dangerous drug; and

(3) Be serially numbered and kept in numerical order in a single file for all dispensing practitioners, including,
without limitation, physician assistants and advanced practice registered nurses, practicing at the same location.

(b) Maintained in a computer, the record must:

(1) Include all the information required to be on the prescription pursuant to NRS 639.2353 and NAC 453.440;

(2) Contain a certification, either in the computer or a separate paper document, initialed and dated by the
patient that the patient has been informed by the practitioner in accordance with subsection 2 and that the patient has
agreed to have the practitioner dispense the controlled substance or dangerous drug; and

(3) Be searchable for any item required by paragraph (a) of subsection 1 to be included in the record.

s6-

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

bo







LZ

Vy





(g) Supplying or diverting drugs, biologicals, medicines, substances or devices
which are legally sold in pharmacies or by wholesalers, so that unqualified persons
can circumvent any law pertaining to the legal sale of such articles.

(i) Performing any of his or her duties as the holder of a license, certificate or
registration issued by the Board, or as the owner of a business or an entity licensed
by the Board, in an incompetent, unskillful or negligent manner.

(n) Dispensing a drug as a dispensing practitioner to a patient with whom the
dispensing practitioner does not have a bona fide therapeutic relationship.

(0) Prescribing a drug as a prescribing practitioner to a patient with whom the
prescribing practitioner does not have a bona fide therapeutic relationship.

19. NAC 639.945(2) provides that the owner of any business or facility licensed,
certified or registered by the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy is responsible for the acts of all
personnel in his or her employ.

20. NAC 639.945(3) provides that, for purposes of applying Nevada State Board of
Pharmacy regulations, a bona fide therapeutic relationship between the patient and practitioner
shall be deemed to exist if the patient was examined in person, electronically or telephonically by
the practitioner within the 6 months immediately preceding the date the practitioner dispenses or
prescribes a drug to the patient and, as a result of the examination, the practitioner diagnosed a
condition for which a given drug therapy is prescribed.

Il. Respondent’s Medical Directorship of Vaccine Center

eae At all relevant times alleged herein, pursuant to the Nevada Secretary of State, The
Vaccine Center LLC and/or Vaccine Center Franchise Company LLC (collectively “Vaccine
Center’) is a Nevada limited liability company with its principle places of business located at 500
E. Windmill Lane, Suite 155, Las Vegas, Nevada 89123, and/or 2051 N. Rainbow Blvd., Suite
100, Las Vegas, Nevada 89108, respectively.

De. Respondent was serving as the “Medical Director” of Vaccine Center including, but

not limited to the dates in question, July 13, 2015 through July 17, 2015.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

Uo

Oo

1]
IZ
i3


i?
22.
Zo


23 John H. Dawson, Esq., is Vaccine Center’s commercial registered agent, and The
Jobba Limited Partnership is listed as manager of The Vaccine Center LLC.
24. Vaccine Center, through Respondent, held itself out to the public as a “preventative

99 66

health and wellness company” “specializing” in medical procedures, products and treatments
including “Travel Medicine,” “Student Health,” “Corporate Health Services,” “Drug Testing”

“STD Testing” (including treatment), “Physicals,” and “Lab Services.”

25. Vaccine Center is and/or was a quasi-primary care facility.

26. Respondent was an independent contractor of Vaccine Center.

2d Respondent was not a manager, agent, officer or employee of Vaccine Center.

28. Respondent had no ownership or member interest in Vaccine Center, nor did he

have contractual authority to manage the affairs of Vaccine Center.

29. None of Vaccine Center’s employees or other independent contractors were
employed by Respondent during the time Respondent served as Medical Director of Vaccine
Center.

30. At all times relevant to the facts alleged herein, and pursuant to NAC 630.810(c),
the medical assistants of Vaccine Center were not employed by Respondent and the medical
assistants and Respondent were not employed by the same employer.

31. Upon information and belief, no employee of Vaccine Center held any professional
license issued by any Nevada board during the time Respondent served as Medical Director.

32. | Upon information and belief, an Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN),
would supervise employees of Vaccine Center.

33. Pursuant to NRS Chapter 632, Nursing, an APRN is prohibited from supervising a
non-licensed medical assistant, and is only permitted to supervise Certified Nursing Assistants
and/or Certified Medication Aides.

34. Respondent knew it was a violation of the Nevada Medical Practice Act to allow an
unsupervised medical assistant to perform invasive medical procedures.

35. | Upon information and belief, medical assistants were performing blood draws for

testing.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559








Zt


36. Pursuant to NAC 449.9733, drawing blood involves a puncture to the skin, which is

an invasive procedure.

ad: Respondent personally saw no patients at Vaccine Center.

38. Respondent knew that there were no other physicians or physician assistants on
staff.

39. Respondent is licensed to prescribe prescription drugs by the Nevada State Board

of Pharmacy (Pharmacy Board) in active status (License No. CS08542), and has been licensed by
the Pharmacy Board since January 9, 1997.

AO. Respondent does not possess a license to dispense prescription drugs.

41. | Upon information and belief, Respondent, personally or at his direction to either a
medical assistant or APRN, procured prescription anti-malaria medication, prescription anti-
diarrheal medication, prescription medication for high-altitude sickness, and prescription
medication to treat and/or prevent jet lag; the aforementioned drugs are available only by
prescription and are dangerous drugs as defined by NRS 454.201.

42. Upon information and belief, Respondent, personally or at his direction, to either a
medical assistant or APRN, delivered these dangerous drugs to Vaccine Center employees at
Vaccine Center’s office locations and left them in their sole possession, custody and control and
beyond the supervision or restraint of Respondent.

43. Respondent did not apply to the Nevada State Board of Pharmacy for a certificate
of registration to dispense controlled substances or dangerous drugs at Vaccine Center’s locations.

44. During Respondent’s service as Medical Director to Vaccine Center, medical
assistants provided unsupervised medical treatment and/or prescriptions and/or performed blood
draws.

45. All of the dangerous drugs listed, while in the custody and control of Vaccine
Center and its employees or agents, were not stored in a secure, locked room or cabinet to which

the dispensing practitioner had the only key or lock combination.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



Lf


ps


at

Bs

46. Vaccine Center and its employees and agents possessed, controlled, stored,
prescribed and/or dispensed all the aforementioned dangerous drugs without a dispensing license
as required by the Pharmacy Board.

47. Respondent was not present when Vaccine Center and its employees and agents
possessed, controlled, stored, prescribed and/or dispensed the aforementioned dangerous drugs.

48. Respondent neither received nor accounted for the dangerous drugs administered
and dispensed by Vaccine Center, nor did he ensure that such drugs were stored in a secure, locked
room or cabinet to which he had the only key or lock combination. The dangerous drugs were not
dispensed in accordance with NAC 639.745. Respondent did not have a bona fide therapeutic
relationship with any patients, nor did he write a prescription for any drugs to any patients, nor
was he on-site at the facility or otherwise immediately available when they were prescribed or
otherwise administered or dispensed. Respondent dispensed none of the drugs to patients
personally at either of Vaccine Center’s two facilities, and did not assure that they were dispensed
only for medically necessary purposes and according to prevailing standards of care, nor did he
assure that a certificate for each dispensing technician employed at the facility was displayed in the
room or cabinet in which drugs were stored.

49. Respondent supplied dangerous drugs so that unqualified persons could circumvent
laws pertaining to the legal sale of such articles, and allowed others to dispense and prescribe
dangerous drugs to those whom he did not have a bona fide therapeutic relationship.

50. Respondent failed to ensure that he had the required ownership or employment
relationship with respect to Vaccine Center, and failed to ensure that he had the legal and practical
control of Vaccine Center’s operations sufficient to effectively control the conduct of its
employees and agents in performance of all medical activities as medical assistants or otherwise,
in order to prevent misconduct and ensure that medical assistants possessed the knowledge, skill
and training to perform their tasks safely and properly.


-10-

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

ie)

eo


i?

Lg


2]


Count I
NRS 630.306(1)(r): Failure to Adequately Supervise

51. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

52. NRS 630.306(1)(r) provides that a failure to adequately supervise a medical
assistant pursuant to the regulations of the Board is an act that constitutes grounds for initiating
disciplinary action.

53. By the conduct described herein, Respondent failed to adequately supervise, or
supervise in any way, medical assistants and all other employees or contractors of Vaccine Center
in their performance of medical tasks during his time as medical director.

54. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State
Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

Count II
NRS 630.305(1)(e): Aiding Practice by Unlicensed Person

om All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.

56. NRS 630.305(1)(e) provides that the aiding, assisting, employing or advising,
directly or indirectly, any unlicensed person to engage in the practice of medicine contrary to the
provisions of NRS Chapter 630 or the regulations of the Board is an act, among others, that
constitutes grounds for initiating disciplinary action.

at; By the conduct described herein, to the extent that Respondent either did not
delegate medical tasks to Vaccine Center’s agents and employees as medical assistants, or to the
extent that their actions were not authorized by Respondent, Respondent nonetheless aided,
assisted and advised these unlicensed persons, both directly and indirectly, in their engaging in the
practice of medicine contrary to the provisions of NRS Chapter 630 or the regulations of the
Board.

58. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Nevada State

Board of Medical Examiners as provided in NRS 630.352.

wv | De

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

Se)

O1


its

iy
ail
DD


WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

l. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners give Respondent notice of the
charges herein against him and give him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein
as set forth in NRS 630.339(2) within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

2 That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners set a time and place for a
formal hearing after holding an Early Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

3. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners determine the sanctions it will
impose if it finds Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act;

4. That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners make, issue and serve upon the
Respondent, in writing, its findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, in writing which shall
include the sanctions imposed; and

5, That the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners take such other and further

action as may be just and proper in these premises.

DATED this / day of August, 2018.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVA TAYTE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By:
DonaldsX OW hite, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorneys for the Investigative Committee

= {Qe

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

(yo

On


i





a |


VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE)

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., hereby deposes and states under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the state of Nevada that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners that authorized the foregoing Complaint against the
Respondent herein; that he has read the foregoing Complaint; and based upon information
discovered during the course of the investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes
the allegations and charges in the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and

correct.

Dated this TA say of August, 2018.

Mens Probod

Wayne Hardwick, M.D.

« [3 «

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

1S
rat
ar


CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on the 8th day of August 2018; I served a filed copy of COMPLAINT and Fingerprint information,

via USPS e-certified return receipt mail to the following:

Jonathan Baktari
500 Windmill Lane, Suite 155
Las Vegas, NV 89123

Dated this 8" day of August, 2018.

Dawn DeHaven Gordillo
Legal Assistant

