Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

bo

wn



L1


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA

In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 18-27627-1

Complaint Against FI LE D

JOHN WOOD GRINSELL, M.D., DEC - 3 2032

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD oH
MED
By:

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for the
IC, and John Wood Grinsell, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, by and through
his counsel, Hoy Chrissinger Kimmel Vallas, PC, and Thomas A. Vallas, Esq., hereby enter into
this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following:

A. Background

l, Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed in an “Inactive” status (since
September 30, 2016) by the Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and
Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to
practice medicine in Nevada since April 9, 2003 (License No. 10449).

Zz On July 31, 2018, in Case No. 18-27627-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, this
Complaint alleges: Count |, a violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2)/NAC 630.230(1)(c); Count I], a
violaton of NRS 630.306(1)(pYNAC 630.230(1)(c); Count III, a violation of NRS 630.306(1)(a);
Count IV, a violation of NRS 630.301(6).


All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter and any

subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and Respondent. Therefore,
Respondent's agreements and admissions are not intended or made for any other use, such as in the context of another
state or federal government regulatory agency proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or
federal court proceeding, or any credentialing or privileges matter.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

bo

KF By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

=H Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA) applicable to certain
regulatory bodies, which is contained in NRS Chapters 233B and 622A. These rights include the right
to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his
own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of
law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s
order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent's
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

a Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

bo


B. Terms & Conditions
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the
matters with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms
and conditions:

i. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a

physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2 Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters
addressed herein with counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this matter
materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this Agreement,
that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent agrees that he
knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after full consultation with and
the assistance of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The IC acknowledges Respondent is

not admitting that the IC*s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit. Respondent is


Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

| || agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of a hearing and potential subsequent litigation.

to

Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, she has evidence, witnesses, expert
3 || witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the Complaint, but for the purposes of
4 || resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent waives the presentation of evidence,
5 || witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to effectuate this Agreement.

6 5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against


Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
8 || engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,

9 || the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

10 a. Respondent admits to violating the following:

11 (1) Count I, NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2)/NAC 630.230(1)(c); and,

12 (2) Count ILI, NRS 630.306(1)(a).

13 b. The IC will dismiss Count Il, NRS 630.306(1)(pY/NAC 630.230(1)(c) and Count IV,
14 NRS 630.301(6) with prejudice.

15 c. Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
16 prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
17 acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $1,000.00,
18 not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

19 d. Respondent shall take six (6) hours of continuing medical education (CME) related
20) to substance abuse (3 hours) and stress management (3 hours) within six (6) months from
21 the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement. The
22 aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME requirements that are
23 regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure in the State of Nevada and
24 shall be approved by the Board prior to their completion.

25 e This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
26 by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

27 a Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

NW


a

1a)

g. Respondent shall participate in a Professional Monitoring Program (Program)

approved by the Board and enter into an agreement with that Program that specifies the

requirements of the Program. Respondent will comply fully with that Program until
further ordered by the Board or IC or by mutual agreement between Respondent and the

Board/IC. Respondent will submit a copy of the executed Program agreement to the Board

within fifteen (15) days following the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this

Agreement and entry of a final order making this Agreement an order of the Board.

h. Within forty-five (45) days following the Board’s acceptance, adoption and
approval of this Agreement and entry of a final order making this Agreement an order of the
Board, Respondent will obtain an independent medical evaluation (IME) from a_ provider
specializing in the evaluation of physicians and approved by the Board. Respondent will cause the
IME provider to submit his or her evaluation of Respondent to the Board.

1. Pursuant to NRS 630.255, Respondent may complete an application for a change of
status from “Inactive” to “Active” and petition the Board to allow him to resume the practice of
medicine so long as Respondent remains complaint with terms and conditions of sections g & h
above, and reserves the right to modify and/or adjust the terms and conditions upon Respondent’s
practice of medicine to ensure he is competent and compliant with his Program.

6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against

any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nw


or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

Te Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board. Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and
communications may be made or conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on
his part until the public Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts
and communications may include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement,
the Complaint and any and all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The
IC and its counsel agree that Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement
is discussed and, if requested, respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s
counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,

approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and the remaining counts of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not
accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any

such member absent evidence of bad faith.


bo

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

bject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

, 2018.

Fa a M.D., Respondent


Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

9600 Gateway Drive

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

1 || IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
2 || by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 30th day of November, 2018, with the

3 || final total amount of costs due of $1,000. C
: 4.

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS





