OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

Zs
At


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS
OF THE STATE OF NEVADA


In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 18-29352-3
Complaint Against FI LE D
DEVENDRAKUMAR I. PATEL, M.D., DEC 11 2018

Respondent. NEVADA STATE BOARD OF

MEDJ@AL EXAMINERS
By:

COMPLAINT

The Investigative Committee! (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel and attorney for the IC,
having a reasonable basis to believe that Devendrakumar I. Patel, M.D. (Respondent) violated the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Chapter 630 and Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
Chapter 630 (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), hereby issues its Complaint, stating the IC’s
charges and allegations as follows:

L Respondent is a physician and holds an inactive license to practice medicine in the
State of Nevada (License No. 11068). He was originally licensed by the Board on July 23, 2004.

A. Respondent Criminal Conduct

2. Pursuant to a Grand Jury Indictment filed on December 6, 2017 (hereinafter, the
“Indictment’”), in the U.S. District Court for the State of Nevada, in Criminal Case No.
3:17-cr-00114 LRH-VPC, “USA. v. Patel M.D.” (hereinafter, the “Federal Case’), a federal grand
jury charged Respondent with 39 crimes, as follows: violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) - Distribution
of Controlled Substances - Schedule II (count 1); violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) - Distribution of
Controlled Substances - Schedule II (counts 2-21); violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) - Distribution of
Controlled Substances - Schedule II (counts 22-25); violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) - Distribution

| The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners (Board), at the time this formal
Complaint was authorized for filing, was composed of Board members Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman,

Mr. M. Neil Duxbury, and Aury Nagy, M.D.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559



of Controlled Substances - Schedule IV (counts 26-36); violation of 18 USC 1347 - Health Care
Fraud (counts 37-39).

3 Pursuant to 18 USC 3559(a)(3), violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1), as alleged in Count
One of the Indictment, constitutes a Class C felony.

4. Respondent and his attorney in the Federal Case, Lance Maningo, Esq., along with
attorneys for the United States, entered into a “Plea Agreement Under Fed. R. Crim. P. 11
(c)(1)(A) and (B),” filed on November 26, 2018 (“Plea Agreement”), a true and correct copy of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and incorporated herein by this reference. Pursuant to the
Plea Agreement, Respondent knowingly and voluntarily agreed to plead guilty to Count One of
the Indictment. Specifically, Respondent admitted the following:

a. Count One: The elements of Distribution of Controlled Substance in violation of
21 USC 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C) are:

i. First, beginning on or about September 2015 and January 2016 and later
dates, the Respondent knowingly distributed Schedule II controlled
substances, to wit Oxycodone and Hydrocodone;

ii. Second, the Respondent knew that the controlled substances were
Oxycodone and Hydrocodone or some other prohibited drug;

iii. Third, the Respondent distributed the controlled substances outside the
usual course of professional practice and not for a legitimate medical
purpose; and

iv. Fourth, the Respondent intended to distribute the controlled substances
outside the course of his professional practice.

a Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, Respondent also admitted that he is, in fact and
under the law, guilty of the crimes charged, and that he acknowledges that if he elected to go to
trial instead of pleading guilty, the United States could prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
Respondent further acknowledges that his admissions and declarations of fact set forth in the Plea

Agreement satisfy every element of the charged offense.


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



COUNT I

NRS 630.306(1)(c) (Illegal Dispensing of Controlled Substances)

6. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

7. Pursuant to NRS 630.306(1)(c), dispensing any controlled substance to others
except as authorized by law is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee.

8. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
knowingly and intentionally dispensed controlled substances, Oxycodone and Hydrocodone,
outside the usual course of his professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose, in
violation of 21 USC 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C).

9, By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

COUNT II

NRS 630.306(1)(p) (Unsafe or Unprofessional Conduct)

10. All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

11. Engaging in any act that is unsafe or unprofessional conduct in accordance with
regulations adopted by the Board is grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to
NRS 630.306(1)(p).

12: As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent
knowingly and intentionally dispensed controlled substances, Oxycodone and Hydrocodone,
outside the usual course of his professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose.

13. Respondent’s conduct was unsafe and unprofessional.

14. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

[1
[1


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

{2
20)


COUNT Il

NRS 630.301(9) (Disreputable Conduct)

ES, All of the allegations in the above paragraphs are hereby incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

16. Conduct that brings the medical profession into disrepute is grounds for discipline
pursuant to NRS 630.301(9), including, without limitation, conduct that violates any provision of
a code of ethics adopted by the Board by regulation based on a national code of ethics.

17. As demonstrated by, but not limited to, the above-outlined facts, Respondent’s
conduct, under the circumstances set forth herein, constitutes engaging in conduct that brings the
medical profession into disrepute.

18. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

WHEREFORE, the Investigative Committee prays:

l. That the Board give Respondent notice of the charges herein against him and give
him notice that he may file an answer to the Complaint herein as set forth in NRS 630.339(2)
within twenty (20) days of service of the Complaint;

Z. That the Board set a time and place for a formal hearing after holding an Early
Case Conference pursuant to NRS 630.339(3);

oe That the Board determine what sanctions to impose if it determines there has been
a violation or violations of the Medical Practice Act committed by Respondent;

4, That the Board make, issue and serve on
Respondent its findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, in writing, that includes the
sanctions imposed; and
[I]
lif


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559



5. That the Board take such other and further action as may be just and proper in these

premises.

DATED this 11th day of December, 2018.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

By: es sais

Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

i
e


VERIFICATION

STATE OF NEVADA )
COUNTY OF WASHOE )

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., having been duly sworn, hereby deposes and states under penalty
of perjury that he is the Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Nevada State Board of
Medical Examiners that authorized the Complaint against the Respondent herein; that he has read
the foregoing Complaint; and that based upon information discovered in the course of the
investigation into a complaint against Respondent, he believes that the allegations and charges in
the foregoing Complaint against Respondent are true, accurate and correct.

DATED this 11th day of December, 2018.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA ay 98 OF ae ee EXAMINERS

hhteye

Wayne Hardwick, M.D., Chairman


EXHIBIT 1



Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 1of13

; =o oe
l _ RECEIVED
at ENTERED ~__ SERVED ON
COUNSELIPARTIES OF agi

DAYLE ELIESON

SUEFAHAMI Nov 26 20°

Nevada Bar Number 5634

KILBY MACFADDEN RK US DISTRICT TE en

Assistant United States Attorneys cE STRICT OF NEV

400 S. Virginia Street, Suite 900 BY: =

Reno, Nevada 89501

Telephone: (775) 784-5438

Email: kilby.macfadden@usdo}.gov
Representing the United States of America

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

DISTRICT OF NEVADA
-oOo-
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Case No.: 3:17-cr-114 LRH-VPC
Plaintiff,
vs. PLEA AGREEMENT UNDER
FED. P.1
DEVENDRA I. PATEL, M.D., and (B)
Defendant.

Plaintiff United States of America, by and through DAYLE ELIESON, United
States Attorney, and SUE FAHAMI and KILBY MACFADDEN, Assistant United
States Attorneys, the Defendant, DEVENDRA I. PATEL, M.D. and the Defendant's
attorney, LANCE MANINGO, ESQ., submit this Plea Agreement under Fed. R.
Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(A) and (B).

I. SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

The parties to this Plea Agreement are the United States of America and
DEVENDRA I. PATEL (the Defendant). This Plea Agreement binds the Defendant
and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Nevada. It does not bind

any other prosecuting, administrative, or regulatory authority, the United States
















mete eens
a a ocecrecmneewens eter women ee 2+ eee Nee ‘ ete ene

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 2 of 13

Probation Office, or the Court.

The Plea Agreement sets forth the parties’ agreement regarding criminal
charges referenced in the Plea Agreement and applicable sentences, fines,
restitution and forfeiture. It does not control or prohibit the United States or any
agency or third party from seeking any other civil or administrative remedies
directly or indirectly against the Defendant.

Il. DISPOSITION OF CHARGES AND WAIVER OF TRIAL RIGHTS

A, Guilty Plea. The Defendant knowingly and voluntarily agrees to plead
guilty to Count One of the Criminal Indictment filed December 6, 2017:

Count One: Distribution of a Controlled Substance, in violation of Title 21,
United States Code, Section 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C).

At the time of sentencing, the Government will move to dismiss the remaining
counts of the Criminal Indictment.

B. Waiver of Trial Rights. The Defendant acknowledges that he has been
advised and Si aaesttena that by entering a plea of guilty he is waiving -- that is,
giving up -- certain rights guaranteed to all Defendants by the laws and the
Constitution of the United States. Specifically, the Defendant is giving up:

l. The right to proceed to trial by jury on all charges, or to a trial
by a judge if the Defendant and the United States both agree;

2. The right to confront the witnesses against the Defendant at
such a trial, and to cross-examine them;

3. The right to remain silent at such a trial, with assurance that his

silence could not be used against him in any way;

ee ee 2 eee)



ee em o-

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 3 of 13

4. The right to testify in his own defense at such a trial if he so

chooses;

5. The right to compel witnesses to appear at such a trial and testify

in the Defendant's behalf, and;

6. The right to have the assistance of an attorney at all stages of

such proceedings.

C. Withdrawal of Guilty Plea. The Defendant will - seek to withdraw
his guilty plea after he has entered it in court.

D. Additional Charges. The United States agrees not to bring any
additional charges against the Defendant arising out of the investigation in the
District of Nevada which culminated in the Criminal Indictment and this Plea
Agreement and based on conduct known to the United States, except that the United
States reserves the right to prosecute the Defendant for any crime of violence as
defined by 18 U.S.C. § 16 in which the Defendant may have participated.

Ill. ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE

Count One: The elements of Distribution of Controlled Substance in violation
of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(C) are:

First, beginning on or about September 2015 and January 2016 and later

dates, the Defendant knowingly distributed Schedule II controlled substances, to wit:

Oxycodone and Hydrocodone;

Second, the Defendant knew that the controlled substances were Oxycodone

and Hydrocodone or some other prohibited drug;

Third, the Defendant distributed the controlled substances outside the usual












seinen ik > RRRRNNEN SORTER RE: SUMNRRNNRNRT HRINCRRRRIRER

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 4 of 13

course of professional practice and not for a legitimate medical purpose; and

Fourth, the Defendant intended to distribute the controlled substances
outside the course of his professional practice.

Ninth Cir, Model Criminal Jury Instr., Criminal 9.18; Title 21 C.F.R. §
1306.04; United States v. Feingold, 454 F.3d 1001, 1008 (9th Cir. 2006)

IV. FACTS SUPPORTING GUILTY PLEA

A. The Defendant will plead guilty because he is, in fact and under the
law, guilty of the crimes charged.

B. The Defendant acknowledges that if he elected to go to trial instead of
pleading guilty, the United States could prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt
and establish its right to forfeit the specified property by preponderance of the
evidence. The Defendant further acknowledges that his admissions and declarations
of fact set forth below satisfy every element of the charged offense.

C. The Defendant waives any potential future claim that the facts he
admitted in this Plea Agreement were insufficient to satisfy the elements of the
charged offense.

D.  Boththe United States and the Defendant agree that this section of the
Plea Agreement does not contain all of the relevant information known to the
Defendant. The parties also agree that the facts contained in Section IV provide a
sufficient factual basis for the crime to which Defendant is pleading guilty, but the
facts contained in Section IV are not an exhaustive statement by the Defendant.

E. The Defendant admits and declares under penalty of perjury that the

facts set forth below are true and correct:



y= emanananentene: erences ecemmeeililie 45 Mitr ih ee BREST Me

2 fees

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 5 of13

At all times relevant to the Criminal Indictment:

1. The Defendant, DEVENDRA I. PATEL, M.D. (“Defendant”), was a
licensed physician who, since 2004, practiced medicine in Nevada under Nevada
License Number 11068, specializing in cardiology in Elko, Nevada.

2. As part of his medical practice, he prescribed Schedule II Controlled
Substances, including Hydrocodone and Oxycodone, under a Drug Enforcement
Administration (“DEA”) license number BP6740662.

3. Defendant knew that under the Controlled Substances Act, Title 21,
United States Code, Section 841(a) et seq., and Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations,
Section 1306.04, a prescription for a Schedule II controlled substance was lawful
only when written for a legitimate medical purpose by a practitioner acting in the
usual course of his or her professional practice.

4, Between approximately September 2015 and January 2016 and later
dates, Defendant prescribed dosages and amounts of Oxycodone and Hydrocodone,
to patients outside the usual course of his professional practice and without a
legitimate medical purpose.

5. Defendant did so with the intent to prescribe Oxycodone and
Hydrocodone outside the course of his professional practice and without a legitimate
medical purpose.

6. All of the foregoing occurred in the State and Federal District of

Nevada and elsewhere.

V. | COLLATERAL USE OF FACTUAL ADMISSIONS

The facts set forth in Section IV of this Plea Agreement shall be admissible

i ae ase



Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 6 of 13

against the Defendant under Fed. R. Evid. 801(d)(2)(A) at sentencing for any
purpose. If the Defendant does not plead guilty or withdraws his guilty plea, the
facts set forth in Section IV of this Plea Agreement shall be admissible at any
proceeding, including a trial, for impeaching or rebutting any evidence, argument or
representation offered by or on the Defendant's behalf. The Defendant expressly
waives all rights under Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(f) and Fed. R. Evid. 410 regarding the
use of the facts set forth in Section IV of this Plea Agreement.
VI. APPLICATION OF SENTENCING GUIDELINES PROVISIONS

A. Discretionary Nature of Sentencing Guidelines. The Defendant
acknowledges that the Court must consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines
(“USSG” or “Sentencing Guidelines”) in determining the Defendant’s sentence, but
that the Sentencing Guidelines are advisory, not mandatory, and the Court has
discretion to impose any reasonable sentence up to the maximum term of

imprisonment permitted by statute.

B. Offense Level Calculations. The parties stipulate to the following

calculation of the Defendant’s offense level under the Sentencing Guidelines,
acknowledge that these stipulations do not bind the Court, and agree that they will

not seek to apply any other specific offense characteristics, enhancements or

reductions:
The Defendant acknowledges that the statutory maximum sentence and any
statutory minimum sentence limit the Court’s discretion in determining the

Defendant’s sentence notwithstanding any applicable Sentencing Guidelines

provisions.















 nneaneeadteteatenedl
+ eee « rename es

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page / of 13

Group 1: Count 1; 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1), )(I(O)

Offense Level Calculation USSG
Base Offense Level! 20 | § 2D1.1(c)(10)
Use of Special Skill +2 3B1.3
Adjusted Offense Level (Subtotal) 22
Contingent Reduction for
Acceptance of Responsibility % § 3E1.1(a)
Contingent Reduction for Government
Motion for Acceptance of Responsibility 4 § 3E1.1(6)
Final Adjusted Offense Level 19

C. Reduction of Offense Level for Acceptance of Responsi bility. Under

USSG § 3E1.1(a), the United States will recommend that the Defendant receive a
two-level downward adjustment for acceptance of responsibility unless he (a) fails to
truthfully admit facts establishing a factual basis for the guilty plea when he enters
the plea; (b) fails to truthfully admit facts establishing the amount of restitution
owed when he enters his guilty plea; (c) fails to truthfully admit facts establishing
the forfeiture allegations when he enters his guilty plea; (d) provides false or
misleading information to the United States, the Court, Pretrial Services, or the
Probation Office; (e) denies involvement in the offense or provides conflicting
statements regarding his involvement or falsely denies or frivolously contests
conduct relevant to the offense; (f) attempts to withdraw his guilty plea; (g) commits

or attempts to commit any crime; (h) fails to appear in court; or (i) violates the

| The Group 1 base offense level was calculated as follows: there were three prescriptions “j
Hydrocodone/Oxycodone for a total 10,800 milligrams of Hydrocodone/Oxycodone. This i
equal to 72.36 kg of marijuana (10.8g x 6700g equals 72,360 grams). The parties stipulate ta

this calculation for purposes of sentencing only.




mana 4

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 8 of 13

conditions of pretrial release.

Under USSG §3E1.1(b), if the Court determines that the Defendant’s total
offense level, before operation of § 3E1.1(a), is 16 or higher, and if the United States
recommends a two-level downward adjustment pursuant to the preceding
paragraph, the United States will move for an additional one-level downward
adjustment for acceptance of responsibility before sentencing because the Defendant
communicated his decision to plead guilty in a timely manner that enabled the
United States to avoid preparing for trial and to efficiently allocate its resources.

D. Criminal History Category. The Defendant acknowledges that the
Court may base his sentence in part on the Defendant’s criminal record or criminal
history. The Court will determine the Defendant’s Criminal History Category niles
the Sentencing Guidelines.

E. Relevant Conduct. The Court may consider any counts dismissed
under this Plea Agreement and all other relevant conduct, whether charged or
uncharged, in determining the applicable Sentencing Guidelines range and whether
to depart from that range.

F, ditional ncin rmation. The stipulated Sentencing
Guidelines calculations are based on information now known to the parties. The
parties may aia additional information to the United States Probation Office
and the Court regarding the nature, scope, and extent of the Defendant’s criminal
conduct and any aggravating or mitigating facts or cieeurnatioiees. Good faith efforts
to provide truthful information or to correct factual misstatements shall not be

grounds for the Defendant to withdraw his guilty plea. The Defendant acknowledges

ee a ee eee)














~ see

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 9 of 13

that the United States Probation Office may calculate the Sentencing Guidelines
differently and may rely on additional information it obtains through its
Stee The Defendant also acknowledges that the Court may rely on this and
other additional information as it calculates the Sentencing Guidelines range and
makes other sentencing determinations, and the Court’s reliance on such
information shall not be grounds for the Defendant to withdraw his guilty plea.
VII. APPLICATION OF SENTENCING STATUTES

A. Maximum Penalty. The maximum penalty under 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)
and 841(b)(1)(C) is 20 years imprisonment, a fine of $1,000,000, or both.

B. Factors Under 18 U.S.C. § 3553. The Court must consider the factors
set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) in determining the Defendant’s sentence. However,
the statutory maximum sentence and any statutory minimum sentence limit the
Court’s discretion in determining the Defendant’s sentence.

C. Parole Abolished. The Defendant acknowledges that his prison

sentence cannot be shortened by early release on parole because parole has been

abolished.

D. Supervised Release. In addition to imprisonment and a fine, the
Defendant will be subject to a three-year term of supervised release. Supervised |
release is a period of time after release from prison during which the Defendant will
be subject to various restrictions and requirements. If the Defendant violates any
condition of supervised release, the Court may order the Defendant's return to prison
for all or part of the term of supervised release, which could result in the Defendant

serving a total term of imprisonment equal to the statutory maximum prison



wae + er _—-< ——

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 10 of 13

sentence of 20 years imprisonment.

EK. Special Assessment. The Defendant will pay a $100.00 special
assessment per count at the time of sentencing.
VIII. POSITIONS REGARDING SENTENCE

The Government will recommend that the Court sentence the Defendant to a
sentence within the Sentencing Guidelines range as determined by the Court.
Notwithstanding its agreement to recommend that the Defendant be sentenced as
described in this Plea Agreement, the United States reserves its right to defend any
lawfully imposed sentence on appeal or in any post-conviction litigation.

The Defendant may seek a downward adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §
3553, including probation, from any sentence the Court may impose.

The Defendant acknowledges that the Court does not have to follow these

recommendations.

IX. RESTITUTION

In exchange for benefits received under this Plea Agreement, the Defendant
agrees to make full restitution in an amount to be determined by the Court for all of
the losses the Defendant caused by his schemes or offenses, wholes charged or
uncharged, pleaded to or not, and by all of his relevant conduct. 18 U.S.C. §
3663(a)(3).

X. FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND DISPOSITION OF ASSETS

Before or after sentencing, upon request by the Court, the United States, or

the Probation Office, the Defendant will provide accurate and complete financial

information, submit sworn statements, and/or give depositions under oath



Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 11 of 13

concerning his assets and his ability to pay. The Defendant will surrender assets he
obtained directly or indirectly as a result of his crimes, and will release funds and
property under his control in order to pay any fine, forfeiture, or restitution ordered

by the Court.
XI. THE DEFENDANT’S ACKNOWLEDGMENTS AND WAIVERS

A. Plea Agreement and Decision to Plead Guilty. The Defendant
acknowledges that:
(1) He has read this Plea Agreement and understands its terms and
conditions;
(2) He has had adequate time to discuss this case, the evidence, and

this Plea Agreement with his attorney;

(3) He has discussed the terms of this Plea Agreement with his
attorney;

(4) The representations contained in this Plea Agreement are true
and correct, including the facts set forth in Section IV; and

(5) He was not under the influence of any alcohol, drug, or medicine
that would impair his ability to understand the Agreement when he considered
signing this Plea Agreement and when he signed it.

The Defendant understands that he alone decides whether to plead guilty or
go to trial, and acknowledges that he has decided to enter his guilty plea knowing of
the charges brought against him, his possible defenses, and the benefits and possible
detriments of proceeding to trial. The Defendant also acknowledges that he decided

to plead guilty voluntarily and that no one coerced or threatened his to enter into





l4










te

tS se _—e _—-—<-

eS anmmmmnmn ty ee enmmm RAS M —

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 12 of 13

this Plea Agreement.

B. Waiver of Appeal and Post-Conviction Proceedings. The Defendant
knowingly and expressly waives: (a) the right to appeal any sentence imposed within
or below the applicable Sentencing Guideline range as determined by the Court; (b)
the right to appeal the manner in which the Court determined that sentence on the
grounds set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3742; and (c) the right to appeal any other aspect of
the conviction or sentence and any order of restitution or forfeiture.

The Defendant also knowingly and expressly waives all collateral challenges,
including any claims under 28 U.S.C. § 2255, to his conviction, sentence, and the
procedure by which the Court adjudicated guilt and imposed sentence, except non-
waivable claims of ineffective assistance of counsel.

The Defendant reserves only the right to appeal any portion of the sentence
that is an upward departure or an upward variance from the Sentencing Guidelines
range determined by the Court.

The Defendant acknowledges that the United States is not obligated or
required to preserve any evidence obtained in the investigation of this case.

C. Removal / Deportation Consequences. The Defendant understands and
acknowledges that if he is not a United States citizen, then it is highly probable that
he will be permanently removed (deported) from the United States as a consequence
of pleading guilty under the terms of this Plea Agreement. The Defendant has also
been advised if his conviction is for an offense described in 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(43), he
will be deported and removed from the United States and will not be allowed to

return to the United States at any time in the future. The Defendant desires to plead


1]









— 20




_~

Case 3:17-cr-00114-LRH-CBC Document 28 Filed 11/26/18 Page 13 of 13

guilty regardless of any immigration consequences that may result from his guilty
plea, even if the consequence is automatic removal from the United States with no
possibility of returning. The Defendant acknowledges that he has specifically
discussed these removal / deportation consequences with his attorney.
XII. ADDITIONAL ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This Plea Agreement resulted from an arms-length negotiation in which both
parties bargained for and received valuable benefits in exchange for valuable
concessions. It constitutes the entire agreement negotiated and agreed to by the
parties. No promises, agreements or conditions other than those set forth in this
agreement have been made or implied by the Defendant, the Defendant's attorney,
or the United States, and no additional promises, agreements or conditions shall
have any force or effect unless set forth in writing and signed by all parties or
confirmed on the record before the Court.

DAYLE ELIESON,
United States Attorney

DATE lz Z6(18 — Mola p__
KILBY MACFADDEN

Assistant United States Attorney

pare 1/26/18 MW

LANCE MANINGO (
Counsel for the Defendant

DATE__ asA Ve \\F VAA
DEVENDRA I. PATEL, M.D.
Defendant


OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

9600 Gateway Drive

Reno, Nevada 89521

(775) 688-2559

ibs:




CERTIFICATE OF MAILING
I hereby certify that I am employed by Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners and that
on the 11th day of December 2018 I served a filed copy of COMPLAINT, via USPS e-certified

return receipt mail to the following:

Devendrakumar |. Patel
Northeastern Nevada Cardiology PC
674 N. Cedar St.

Elko, NV 89801

Dated this 11th day of December, 2018.


Dawn DeHaven Gordillo
Legal Assistant

