Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
KRKKKES
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 18-8298-1

Complaint Against FI LE D

Edwin Samuel Kulubya, M.D.,
APR 16 2018

NEVADA STATE BOARD OF
MEDIGAL EXAMINERS

By: Pa _,

Respondent.

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Robert Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel for the Board and attorney for the
IC, and Edwin Samuel Kulubya, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed physician in Nevada, hereby enter
into this Settlement Agreement (Agreement) based on the following: !

A. Background

1. Respondent is a medical doctor licensed by the Board, pursuant to Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC)
(collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in Nevada since September 16, 1989
(License No. 5942).

2. On February 8, 2018, in Case No. 18-8298-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, this
Complaint alleges one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(3), disciplinary action by another state, to wit:
the Medical Board of California.


' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301

Reno, Nevada 89502

(775) 688-2559



3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4. Respondent was properly served with a copy of the Complaint, has reviewed and
understands the Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of the Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA) applicable to certain
regulatory bodies, which is contained in NRS Chapters 233B and 622A. These rights include the right
to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint, the right to representation by counsel, at his
own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his defense, the right to confront and cross-
examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to written findings of fact, conclusions of
law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the right to judicial review of the Board’s
order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirements or limitations, if the Board
concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the

terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is not represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters

addressed herein without counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement without the advice
of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms

and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint
filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in
the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4. Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The Board acknowledges

Respondent is not admitting that the Board’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



and Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witness(es), expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to
effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against
Respondent without incurring any further costs or the expense associated with a hearing, and without
admitting that the Board’s claims have merit, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an
order finding that Respondent engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act. Accordingly, the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

a, Respondent admits to one (1) violation of NRS 630.301(3) for disciplinary action
by another state, to wit: the Medical Board of California.

b. Respondent shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s acceptance,
adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being $421.70, not including any
costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

c. Respondent shall pay a fine of $500.00 within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

d. This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required
by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

€. Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

6. Release from Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,
investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of

Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement, or the administration of the case referenced
herein.

7. Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall
recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed.

9. Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and
effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering

this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559



adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10.‘ Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is

required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is

commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order to Show Cause Hearing, which will be duly noticed.
Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including failure to pay any fines, costs,
expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an order of the Board, which may
result in additional disciplinary action being taken against Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

MI
/If
HI
MI
MI
HI
ih
MI
HI

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this ZOday of filing 2018.

Rober/Kilroy, Esq., General Counsel
d K. White, Esq., Deputy General Counsel

Attorneys for the Investigative Committee

Dated this [3 ‘day of Eebcnaciy, 2018.

rm

Edwin S¥muel Kulubya,™D., Respondent

STATE OF CALIFORNIA |) SEE ATTACHED
‘SS. LIFORNIA

COUNTY OF ) ane AT

SUBSCRIBED and SWORN to before me

this day of , 2018.

NOTARY PUBLIC

CALIFORNIA JURAT
(CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE § 8202)

A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the
individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness,
accuracy, or validity of that document.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF OV CUNG Se ———

Subscribed and sworn to (or ume) before me on this | Ale day february 2016
by En aA) Samu € | Ky lu BVA ——T proved to me on the basis of

(Name of Signer(9))
satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) who appeared before me.

“ere My Comm. Expires Aug 30, 2015 =
ATPASE TLL eo essere LUDA cut HUME,

SSIUANAU TELE NUNT CETTE CER AR CECE CCE CEE
= Commission # 2080128 =
2 Notary Public - California =
= Orange County =
ES)

Signature of Notary Public (Notary Seal)

ADDITIONAL OPTIONAL INFORMATION

Description of Attached Pomme Me. thelooard da
state vw |
Title or Type of Document: air ‘cal Exams Pine Document Date: O2|| 3 | &

Number of Pages: Signer(s) Other Than Named Above: Nore.

Additional Information: | Ayn aac. Oa page “Lot Fon)

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners

1105 Terminal Way #301
Reno, Nevada 89502
(775) 688-2559

al

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 13 day of April, 2018, with the final

ph. oly esuhorhe,

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M. D., Presid&&
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF csi EXAMINERS

total amount of costs due of $421.70.

