BEFORE THE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

OF THE STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of Charges and Case No. 18-8756-1
Complaint Against F TILED
IVAN LEE GOLDSMITH, M.D., DEC - 3 2018
Ry

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
The Investigative Committee (IC) of the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
(Board), by and through Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel for the Board and
attorney for the IC, and Ivan Lee Goldsmith, M.D. (Respondent), a licensed Physician in Nevada,
assisted by his attorney, E. Brent Bryson, Esq., hereby enter into this Settlement Agreement
(Agreement) based on the following:'
A. Background

|. Respondent is a medical doctor currently licensed (License No. 6116) in active status
by the Board pursuant to Chapter 630 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) and Chapter 630 of the
Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) (collectively, the Medical Practice Act), to practice medicine in
Nevada since August 25, 1990.

2. On October |} , 2018, in Case No. 18-8756-1, the IC filed a formal Complaint
(Complaint) charging Respondent with violating the Medical Practice Act. Specifically, the
Complaint alleges: Count I, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) (Engaging in Conduct That
Violated Pharmacy Board Regulations); Count II, violation of NRS 630.301(9) (Disreputable

' All agreements and admissions made by Respondent are solely for final disposition of this matter
and any subsequent related administrative proceedings or civil litigation involving the Board and
Respondent. Therefore, Respondent’s agreements and admissions are not intended or made for
any other use, such as in the context of another state or federal government regulatory agency
proceeding, state or federal civil or criminal proceeding, any state or federal court proceeding, or
any credentialing or privileges matter.

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

12)

22)
23/
24.
25)

Conduct); Count III, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(r) (Failure to Adequately Supervise a Medical
Assistant); Count IV, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(3) (Engaging in Conduct That Violated
Pharmacy Board Regulations); Count V, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(b)(2) (Violation of
Standards of Practice); Count VI, violation of NRS 630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete
Medical Records); Count VII, violation of NRS 630.306(1)(p) (Unsafe or Unprofessional
Conduct); Count VIII, violations of NRS 630.306(c) (Unauthorized Dispensing); Count IX,
violations of NRS 630.306(c) (Unauthorized Prescribing); Count X, violation of NRS
630.3062(1)(a) (Failure to Maintain Complete Medical Records).

3. By reason of the foregoing, Respondent is subject to discipline by the Board as
provided in NRS 630.352.

4, Respondent was properly served with a copy of this Complaint, has reviewed and
understands this Complaint, and has had the opportunity to consult with competent counsel
concerning the nature and significance of this Complaint.

5. Respondent is hereby advised of his rights regarding this administrative matter, and of
his opportunity to defend against the allegations in the Complaint. Specifically, Respondent has
certain rights in this administrative matter as set out by the United States Constitution, the Nevada
Constitution, the Medical Practice Act, the Nevada Open Meeting Law (OML), which is contained in
NRS Chapter 241, and the Nevada Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which is contained in NRS
Chapter 233B. These rights include the right to a formal hearing on the allegations in the Complaint,
the right to representation by counsel, at his own expense, in the preparation and presentation of his
defense, the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses and evidence against him, the right to
written findings of fact, conclusions of law and order reflecting the final decision of the Board, and the
right to judicial review of the Board’s order, if the decision is adverse to him.

6. Respondent understands that, under the Board’s charge to protect the public by
regulating the practice of medicine, the Board may take disciplinary action against Respondent’s
license, including license probation, license suspension, license revocation and imposition of
administrative fines, as well as any other reasonable requirement or limitation, if the Board

concludes that Respondent violated one or more provisions of the Medical Practice Act.

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL


sa

7. Respondent understands and agrees that this Agreement, by and between
Respondent and the IC, is not with the Board, and that the IC will present this Agreement to the
Board for consideration in open session at a duly noticed and scheduled meeting. Respondent
understands that the IC shall advocate for the Board’s approval of this Agreement, but that the
Board has the right to decide in its own discretion whether or not to approve this Agreement.
Respondent further understands and agrees that if the Board approves this Agreement, then the
terms and conditions enumerated below shall be binding and enforceable upon him and the Board.

B. Terms & Conditions

NOW, THEREFORE, in order to resolve the matters addressed herein, i.e., the matters
with regard to the Complaint, Respondent and the IC hereby agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Jurisdiction. Respondent is, and at all times relevant to the Complaint has been, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Nevada subject to the jurisdiction of the Board as set
forth in the Medical Practice Act.

2. Representation by Counsel/Knowing, Willing and Intelligent Agreement.

Respondent acknowledges he is represented by counsel, and wishes to resolve the matters

addressed herein with said counsel. Respondent agrees that if representation by counsel in this
matter materially changes prior to entering into this Agreement and for the duration of this
Agreement, that counsel for the IC will be timely notified of the material change. Respondent
agrees that he knowingly, willingly and intelligently enters into this Agreement after deciding to
have a full consultation with and upon the advice of legal counsel.

3. Waiver of Rights. In connection with this Agreement, and the associated terms
and conditions, Respondent knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives all rights in connection
with this administrative matter. Respondent hereby knowingly, willingly and intelligently waives
all rights arising under the United States Constitution, the Nevada Constitution, the Medical
Practice Act, the OML, the APA, and any other legal rights that may be available to him or that
may apply to him in connection with the administrative proceedings resulting from the Complaint

filed in this matter, including defense of the Complaint, adjudication of the allegations set forth in

Vu

> Ww

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

the Complaint, and imposition of any disciplinary actions or sanctions ordered by the Board.
Respondent agrees to settle and resolve the allegations of the Complaint as set out by this
Agreement, without a hearing or any further proceedings and without the right to judicial review.

4, Acknowledgement of Reasonable Basis to Proceed. Respondent acknowledges

that the IC believes it has a reasonable basis to allege that Respondent engaged in conduct that is
grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. The Board acknowledges Respondent
is not admitting that the Board’s claims/counts as alleged in the Complaint have merit and
Respondent is agreeing to resolve this matter to avoid the costs of hearing and potential
subsequent litigation. Respondent asserts if this matter were to proceed to hearing, he has
evidence, witnesses, expert witness(es) and defenses to the counts/claims alleged in the
Complaint, but for the purposes of resolving the matter and for no other purpose, Respondent
waives the presentation of evidence, witnesses, expert witnesses, and defenses in order to

effectuate this Agreement.

5. Consent to Entry of Order. In order to resolve this Complaint pending against

Respondent, Respondent hereby agrees that the Board may issue an order finding that Respondent
engaged in conduct that is grounds for discipline pursuant to the Medical Practice Act. Accordingly,
the following terms and conditions are hereby agreed upon:

A. While not admitting that the Board’s allegations as alleged in Count I have merit,
Respondent acknowledges that Nevada State Board of Pharmacy (Pharmacy Board) has entered a
final order so finding, and based solely thereon, admits to Count I.

B. Respondent admits to Counts V, VI and X.

S Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the state of Nevada shall be placed on
probation, and his license placed on “Inactive” status immediately upon signing this Agreement
until successful completion of the terms set forth in Paragraph D immediately following.

D. Respondent’s license shall be subject to a term of probation for a period of time not
to exceed twenty-four (24) months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval
of this Agreement (Probationary Period). Respondent must complete the following terms and

conditions within the Probationary Period and demonstrate compliance to the good faith

to

—_ Ww

wn

satisfaction of the Board within twenty-four (24) months, or before Respondent resumes the
practice of medicine in Nevada during this probationary period, whichever is first; if Respondent
fails to demonstrate compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement within twenty-
four (24) months, or otherwise violates the terms of this Agreement or the Medical Practice Act,
then the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent's license to practice medicine
in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on immediate revocation of his license,
which hearing will be duly noticed. The following terms and conditions shall apply during

Respondent's probationary period:

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

aes
ae
a3
SZan
iG
$i

uv


Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


(1) Respondent shall complete the University of San Diego, Physician Assessment and
Competency Evaluation Program (PACE), Competency Assessment, and, if
recommended by PACE, the Fitness For Duty (FFD) evaluation, and pass all of the
above to the satisfaction of the Board;

(2) Respondent will pay the costs and expenses incurred in the investigation and
prosecution of the above-referenced matter within sixty (60) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement, the current amount being
$7,168.05, not including any costs that may be necessary to finalize this Agreement.

(3) Respondent shall take twenty-two (22) hours of continuing medical education (CME)
related to best practices in the prescribing of controlled substances within three (3)
months from the date of the Board’s acceptance, adoption and approval of this
Agreement. The aforementioned hours of CME shall be in addition to any CME
requirements that are regularly imposed upon Respondent as a condition of licensure
in the state of Nevada and shall be approved by the Board to meet this requirement
prior to their completion.

(4) Respondent shall pay a fine of $1,000 per count admitted to hereby, consisting of four
(4) counts, for a total of $4,000, within one hundred eighty (180) days of the Board’s
acceptance, adoption and approval of this Agreement.

(5) During the probationary period, Respondent shall successfully complete all

requirements and comply with all orders, past or future, of the Pharmacy Board,

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

wo & & WW

specifically including but limited to, the Pharmacy Board’s Order issued on September
13, 2018, in its Case Numbered 17-101-CS-S, unless said Order is reversed or
modified on Judicial Review, in which case, Respondent shall comply with any
subsequent order, if any.

(6) During the probationary period, Respondent shall comply with all terms and
conditions of any criminal sanctions incurred before or during the period of this
agreement, if any, including probation or parole.

(7) During the probationary period, Respondent shall not supervise any Physician
Assistant, or collaborate with any Advanced Practice Registered Nurse.

(8) Within twenty-four (24) months, or before Respondent resumes the practice of
medicine in Nevada during this probationary period, whichever is first, Respondent
shall appear before the Board at a public meeting and demonstrate compliance with all
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, at which time, Respondent may complete
an application for a change of status to “Active,” and petition the Board to allow him
to resume the practice of medicine. Provided that Respondent has fulfilled all the
aforementioned terms and conditions as set for in this subsection D, committed no new
violations of the Medical Practice Act from the date of this Agreement, and there exist
at the time of his application no pending formal complaints or disciplinary actions
against Respondent, and Respondent otherwise fulfills the requirements set forth in
NRS 630.255, in such case, his application to return to active status shall be granted in
good faith.

oa This Agreement shall be reported to the appropriate entities and parties as required

by law, including, but not limited to, the National Practitioner Data Bank.

F; Respondent shall receive a Public Letter of Reprimand.

G. The other counts of the Complaint, and any other claims arising from Board

Investigation Nos. 16-16726 and 18-18143, shall be dismissed with prejudice.
6. Release From Liability. In execution of this Agreement, Respondent understands

and agrees that the State of Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel,

NO

Ww

0 Oo nN A

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

investigators, experts, peer reviewers, committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents
are immune from civil liability for any decision or action taken in good faith in response to
information acquired by the Board. NRS 630.364(2)(a). Respondent agrees to release the State of
Nevada, the Board, and each of its members, staff, counsel, investigators, experts, peer reviewers,
committees, panels, hearing officers, consultants and agents from any and all manner of actions,
causes of action, suits, debts, judgments, executions, claims and demands whatsoever, known and
unknown, in law or equity, that Respondent ever had, now has, may have or claim to have, against
any or all of the persons, government agencies or entities named in this paragraph arising out of,
or by reason of, this investigation, this Agreement or the administration of the case referenced

herein.

ef Procedure for Adoption of Agreement. The IC and counsel for the IC shall

recommend approval and adoption of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by the Board in
resolution of this Complaint. In the course of seeking Board acceptance, approval and adoption of
this Agreement, counsel for the IC may communicate directly with the Board staff and the
adjudicating members of the Board.

Respondent acknowledges that such contacts and communications may be made or
conducted ex parte, without notice or opportunity to be heard on his part until the public Board
meeting where this Agreement is discussed, and that such contacts and communications may
include, but may not be limited to, matters concerning this Agreement, the Complaint and any and
| all information of every nature whatsoever related to this matter. The IC and its counsel agree that
Respondent may appear at the Board meeting where this Agreement is discussed and, if requested,
respond to any questions that may be addressed to the IC or the IC’s counsel.

8. Effect of Acceptance of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board accepts,
approves and adopts this Agreement, the Board shall issue a final order, making this Agreement
an order of the Board, and, pending full compliance with the terms herein, the case shall be closed
and the remaining counts of the Complaint shall be dismissed with prejudice.

9, Effect of Rejection of Agreement by Board. In the event the Board does not

accept, approve and adopt this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null, void and of no force and

9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 89521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners


effect except as to the following agreement regarding adjudications: (1) Respondent agrees that,
notwithstanding rejection of this Agreement by the Board, nothing contained in this Agreement
and nothing that occurs pursuant to efforts of the IC to seek the Board’s acceptance of this
Agreement shall disqualify any member of the adjudicating panel of the Board from considering
this Complaint and from participating in disciplinary proceedings against Respondent, including
adjudication of this case; and (2) Respondent further agrees that he shall not seek to disqualify any
such member absent evidence of bad faith.

10. Binding Effect. If approved by the Board, Respondent understands that this
Agreement is a binding and enforceable contract upon Respondent and the Board.

11. Forum Selection Clause. The parties agree that in the event either party is
required to seek enforcement of this Agreement in district court, the parties consent to such
jurisdiction and agree that exclusive jurisdiction shall be in the Second Judicial District Court,
State of Nevada, Washoe County.

12. Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The parties agree that in the event an action is
commenced in district court to enforce any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.

13. Failure to Comply with Terms. Should Respondent fail to comply with any term
or condition of this Agreement once the Agreement has been accepted, approved and adopted by
the Board, the IC shall be authorized to immediately suspend Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Nevada pending an Order To Show Cause Hearing on immediate revocation of his
license, which will be duly noticed. Failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including
failure to pay any fines, costs, expenses or fees owed to the Board, is a failure to comply with an
order of the Board, which may result in additional disciplinary action being taken against
Respondent. NRS 630.3065(2)(a).

ify

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

(775) 688-2559

Reno, Nevada 89521

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive

=e)

ON

wo =

Further, Respondent’s failure to remit payment to the Board for monies agreed to be paid as a

condition of this Agreement may subject Respondent to civil collection efforts.

Dated this 25 day of Qeroger , 2018.

INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

Aaron Bart Fricke, Esq., Deputy General Counsel
Attorney for the Investigative Committee

Dated this /7 ~day of O¢tySer_, 2018.

ichard Schonfeld, Esq.,
Attorneys for Respondent

Dated this day of , 2018.

10/17/2018 8:49:13 AM PDT

Sunn —

Ivan Lee Goldsmith, M.D., Respondent

Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners
9600 Gateway Drive
Reno, Nevada 895521
(775) 688-2559

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

tO

wm -S& BW




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the foregoing Settlement Agreement is approved and accepted
by the Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners on the 30th day of November, 2018, with the

Rachakonda D. Prabhu, M.D.., President
NEVADA STATE BOARD OF MEDICAL EXAMINERS

final total amount of costs due of $7,168.05.

